Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia $24.5M of bailout cash for Acadia comes as news to other universities The executive director of the Council of Nova Scotia University Presidents says it was not common knowledge Acadia University has been getting emergency operating funds from the provincial government. Social Sharing Wolfville-based school got $10.5M in 2016-17 and $3.5M in 2012-13 up to 2015-16 Michael Gorman · CBC News · Posted: Jul 28, 2017 6:13 PM AT | Last Updated: July 28, 2017 Government officials refused to discuss the decision to give Acadia University bailout money or explain why it was necessary. (Robert Short/CBC) Ongoing emergency financial support from the province for Acadia University is coming as news to other university presidents in Nova Scotia. On Thursday, the government officially closed the books on the 2016-17 fiscal year. With those documents came the revelation the province provided a $10.5-million bailout to the Wolfville university. Government officials refused to discuss the decision or explain why the money was necessary. Acadia president Peter Ricketts said the funding, which included forgiveness of a $7-million loan from 2011 and a $3.5-million operating grant from 2012-13 up to 2015-16, helped the university avoid making cuts and puts it on stable footing. This works out to a total of $24.5 million. News comes as a surprise The school first made the money request last fall to the Advanced Education Department. Following an independent financial analysis of the school's situation, the request was forwarded to the Treasury Board in June where it was approved and the school was notified. Peter Halpin, executive director of the Council of Nova Scotia University Presidents, said of the three university presidents he spoke with on Friday, none of them was aware of Acadia's side deals with the province and they "expressed surprise about learning about the arrangement." The council is working as quickly as possible to convene a meeting to discuss the matter, he said. Proof of a funding crisis A government spokesperson said the only other university to receive emergency funding in recent years is NSCAD, which received a total of $10.2 million from 2009-10 to 2015-16. The amount requested varied each year. Meanwhile, representatives of the Canadian Federation of Students-Nova Scotia issued a news release on Friday saying the situation is "further proof of the funding crisis in the post-secondary education system in Nova Scotia." "The role of government is not to provide bailouts, it is to provide appropriate levels of funding that don't force universities into times of financial crisis," said chairperson Aidan McNally in the release. About the Author Michael Gorman Reporter Michael Gorman is a reporter in Nova Scotia whose coverage areas include Province House, rural communities, and health care. Contact him with story ideas at michael.gorman@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories $10.5M bailout for Acadia helps avoid 'more difficult decisions' NSCAD overcomes 'bad publicity' to focus on future Nova Scotia universities face increased financial scrutiny with new bill NSCAD deficit covered by province Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now