Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan 2nd ballot spot could be key to victory for Sask. Party race: experts Political scientists in Saskatchewan explain why being a second, or third, ballot pick in a leadership race is important for candidates vying to win the Saskatchewan Party leadership. Social Sharing Political scientists predict 3, possibly 4, rounds of ballot counting on Saturday Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2018 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: January 26, 2018 One Saskatchewan political expert says which of the five candidates vying to lead the Sask. Party wins will ultimately come down to the candidate with the most second, or third, ballot support. (Adam Hunter/CBC) Being the first pick on a ballot in the race to lead the Saskatchewan Party isn't everything — being the second, or even third, choice could be the key to victory.  That's according to two political scientists who, like many of us, are scratching their heads as to which candidate will prove successful after months of campaigning for the party's — and province's — top job. How to follow CBC's coverage of the Saskatchewan Party leadership race OpinionSask. Party must embrace change to survive after Brad Wall 'No solid polling' done in Sask. Party leadership race, political expert says The party will elect a new leader, who will also become Saskatchewan's premier, using a preferential ballot. Mail-in voting is already underway, with in-person voting, and the final selection of a new leader, on Saturday. Under the preferential ballot system, voters rank their leadership choices. If no single candidate immediately wins a 50 per cent plus one majority, the lowest-ranked candidate is eliminated. Votes for that candidate are then distributed to the other candidates, following the ranking of the voters. That process continues until one candidate has a majority of votes. How voting works at Sask. Party leadership convention Saskatchewan3 years ago 0:52More than 27,000 people have their Saskatchewan Party membership, making them eligible to vote for who will be the province’s next premier. Here how things will proceed during Saturday's leadership convention. 0:52 Throughout the race to replace Brad Wall, Alanna Koch, Ken Cheveldayoff and Scott Moe have been perceived as the front-runners according to Tom McIntosh, head of political studies at the University of Regina. Gord Wyant and Tina Beaudry-Mellor are also in the running for the leadership. Tom McIntosh heads the department of politics at the University of Regina. He says Alanna Koch, Ken Cheveldayoff and Scott Moe have been perceived as the front-runners in the leadership race. (CBC News) McIntosh believes there has not been a breakaway moment for any of those contenders, so who ultimately pulls ahead will come down to the candidate with the most second, or third, ballot support. "I really think that's going to be what carries this through." 2nd ballot could make the difference Joe Garcea, a professor of political studies at the University of Saskatchewan, said for a leadership candidate, being a second choice is "equally important" to being someone's first pick on a ballot. The second-ballot spot is important because of how preferential voting works — when a candidate is knocked out, the vote initially given to them will be assigned to the second choices listed on those ballots. "You might be third in terms of being ranked first, but if you're first-ranked in a second round of balloting and then pick all those [votes] up, you could easily jump to first place in one ballot," explained Garcea. 'Strategic campaigning' McIntosh believes not only is strategic voting at play, but also what he calls "strategic campaigning." Joe Garcea, a faculty member in the department of political studies at the University of Saskatchewan, says Gord Wyant has support in the education sector, so if those members vote he could ranked quite well in the leadership race. (University of Saskatchewan)"Which is candidates saying to people, 'Well I know you're [a] dyed-in-the-wool … candidate X supporter, but I really want to be your second choice. "That could wind up being quite decisive on this," he said. "One of the things that got Andrew Scheer the federal Conservative leadership was that he was a lot of people's second choice. And so as candidates dropped off the ballot he kept his lead, but it got smaller and smaller and smaller, and those votes eventually got Andrew Scheer enough to [get] just over the top and edge over a slim victory." However, he said where votes go depends on how many members actually filled out second, third and fourth choices. PODCASTThe Pollcast: Who will be the next premier of Saskatchewan? Teens as young as 14 to vote for Sask. Party leader, next premier McIntosh added that typically, people who buy a membership to vote in a leadership campaign do so to vote for a particular candidate. Sask. Party executive director Patrick Bundrock said the number of ballots cast, including spoiled ones, will not be known until Saturday. As of Wednesday, he said more than 1,000 people are expected to attend Saturday's convention, where in-person voting will be taking place. 3 or 4 rounds of counting Both McIntosh and Garcea predict at least three, possibly four, rounds of counting to occur Saturday to determine who is premier-designate. In terms of outcomes, they say former RCMP sergeant and northern Saskatchewan MP Rob Clarke, who dropped out of race but will still appear on the ballot, will be eliminated first, likely followed by Tina Beaudry-Mellor, who both experts say lacks party support. According to Garcea, Gord Wyant could garner better ballot support than some assume if some supporters, such as those in the education sector, cast a ballot. "I think he's been courting it much more strongly and much more clearly and got to them much earlier than some of the other candidates," Garcea said. About the Author Stephanie Taylor Reporter, CBC Saskatchewan Stephanie Taylor is a reporter based in Saskatchewan. Before joining CBC News in Regina, she covered municipal politics in her hometown of Winnipeg and in Halifax. Reach her at stephanie.taylor@cbc.ca @__stephanietaylor CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories How to follow CBC's coverage of the Saskatchewan Party leadership race Opinion Sask. Party must embrace change to survive after Brad Wall 'No solid polling' done in Sask. Party leadership race, political expert says PODCAST The Pollcast: Who will be the next premier of Saskatchewan? Teens as young as 14 to vote for Sask. Party leader, next premier Sask. Party brings in $385K in memberships since leadership race began Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now