Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia 3 more NSLC stores to be renovated to sell cannabis this fall NSLC is renovating stores to have a separate, hidden area to sell cannabis. Staff will help customers make informed choices and signs will be posted warning of the dangers of mixing cannabis and alcohol. Social Sharing Cannabis will be sold in separate area hidden from rest of store CBC News · Posted: May 01, 2018 2:14 PM AT | Last Updated: May 1, 2018 Renovations at a NSLC store are underway for a separate area that will stock cannabis. (Craig Paisley/CBC) Nova Scotians will have three more locations to buy legal cannabis this fall.  Bridgewater, New Minas and Antigonish join the nine other Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation stores that will sell cannabis.  "Since we announced the first nine stores that would sell cannabis, NSLC has been working to identify additional locations that could be renovated for cannabis sales," said Finance and Treasury Board Minister Karen Casey. In March, CBC News looked at how legal cannabis wouldn't be as readily available in Nova Scotia as it would be in other Maritime provinces. Even with the additional three stores, access will remain poorer in Nova Scotia. Province admits 'gaps' in plan to sell cannabis through 9 NSLC outlets The NSLC stores will sell cannabis in a separate area and no one under 19 will be allowed. The area will not be visible from the rest of the store.  The NSLC will train staff to help customers. There will be no cross-promotion of alcohol and cannabis, and signs will be posted warning about the dangers of mixing the two. The NSLC will follow federal requirements for selling and advertising cannabis. In Nova Scotia, prepare to drive a long way for your pot CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Province admits 'gaps' in plan to sell cannabis through 9 NSLC outlets In Nova Scotia, prepare to drive a long way for your pot Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now