Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan 3 Sask. Party leadership candidates raise concerns debate questions may have been leaked to opponent The Saskatchewan Party says it received a letter of complaint Thursday signed by Gord Wyant, Tina Beaudry-Mellor and Scott Moe, raising concerns another leadership candidate may have been provided with questions prior to a debate in Weyburn. Social Sharing Gord Wyant, Scott Moe and Tina Beaudry-Mellor submitted complaint in letter to the party CBC News · Posted: Dec 08, 2017 1:53 PM CT | Last Updated: December 8, 2017 Saskatchewan Party leadership candidates are seen here during a Nov. 4 debate in Saskatoon. The party says it has received a complaint that one of its leadership candidates may have been given questions before a debate in Weyburn, Sask. (Adam Hunter/CBC) Three hopefuls for leadership of the Saskatchewan Party are alleging one of their fellow candidates might have been given questions before a Nov. 30 debate in Weyburn, Sask. Patrick Bundrock, the Sask. Party's executive director and electoral officer for the leadership race, said on Thursday the party received a letter of complaint signed by Gord Wyant, Tina Beaudry-Mellor and Scott Moe.  "The letter itself raises concerns that one candidate may have been in possession of the debate questions prior to one of the debates," Bundrock said, adding the letter doesn't name the candidate to whom the questions may have been leaked. Sask. massage therapists who want regulation called on to buy party memberships 'Just Brad': Premier says goodbye to Saskatchewan Legislature He said the allegation is concerning. "We take this race and the rules around it, and the procedures in place very, very serious." The letter has been forwarded to the leadership organizing committee for review and potential investigation, he said.    Moe's campaign said it expects the party to investigate the matter.  "Very serious and concerning information has come forward with respect to the debate questions, and answers to those questions, being provided in advance to one candidate," reads a statement from Moe.  "I confirm I was signatory to a letter asking the party to investigate this extremely serious situation." The Sask. Party will elect its new leader, who will replace outgoing Premier Brad Wall, on Jan. 27. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. massage therapists who want regulation called on to buy party memberships 'Just Brad': Premier says goodbye to Saskatchewan Legislature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now