Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan·Updated 4-year-old with special needs turned away from Sask. pre-kindergarten due to lack of classroom support A Kindersley, Sask., family was told their son could not attend pre-kindergarten because there was no educational assistant in the classroom. Social Sharing NDP says more funding needed to solve problem CBC News · Posted: Oct 31, 2017 7:29 PM CT | Last Updated: November 1, 2017 The province says pre-kindergarten classes aren't always equipped for children with special needs like Leslie Steer (in red). (Left photo: Chris Steer/Submitted. Right photo: Susan Burgess/CBC) A Saskatchewan father is frustrated after he tried to enrol his son in pre-kindergarten to get him used to being around other children — and was turned away. Leslie, 4, from Kindersley, Sask., lives with global development delays and has pulmonary hypertension. His father, Chris Steer, said the boy's skills fall in the 18- to 24-month range when it comes to speaking, walking and writing. School kids with special needs treated as if 'expendable', parent says 'They shouldn't have to suffer': Government changes funding for special needs daycare workers After Steer submitted the necessary paperwork, the principal of Westberry School called to tell him that his son was denied enrolment due to health issues. Although Leslie's parents and doctors insisted an educational assistant wouldn't be necessary, the school said he would have to stay home a year because the classroom didn't have one.   "It was very frustrating to hear that," Steer said. "I think every kid in Saskatchewan, or anywhere, that has a disability or anything should be allowed to go to school — even if there is budget cuts." Steer said he called Premier Brad Wall, who referred him to the Ministry of Education. In his talks with the province, Steer said he was never offered a concrete solution, but was told he could send his son to kindergarten next year. "The way that the pre-k programming is set up is that it's not necessarily tailored, as a rule, for special needs and intensive kids," said Minister of Education Bronwyn Eyre. "I understand the family's position and we tried to work with them." 'We've cut resources to the classroom so deeply' NDP education critic Carla Beck said funding should be given to support more pre-k students. "We've cut resources to the classroom so deeply that schools don't feel that they can adequately supervise and provide for the needs of these children," said Beck. "The Ministry of Education and the people of Saskatchewan have an obligation to provide children in this province with an adequate education, at the very least." The Ministry of Education says since 2007 it has expanded the number of pre-k spaces to 5,056 from 2,480. School divisions have the power to allocate these programs to children they choose. Eyre said the ministry did suggest other early-education programs that might be suitable for Leslie. Steer recently signed his son up for daycare, where he will go for two days a month so that he can spend time with other kids. With files from CBC Radio's Afternoon Edition CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories School kids with special needs treated as if 'expendable', parent says 'A punch to the gut': Special needs programs cut at Regina Public Schools 'They shouldn't have to suffer': Government changes funding for special needs daycare workers 'There will be cuts in the classroom' due to budget, says Sask. Teachers' Federation Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now