Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon 7 more sexual assault charges laid against Saskatoon massage therapist A 48-year-old massage therapist from Saskatoon is now facing nine charges of sexual assault. Social Sharing Mark Donlevy already charged with 2 counts of sexual assault from last year CBC News · Posted: Apr 07, 2017 10:18 AM CT | Last Updated: April 7, 2017 Saskatoon massage therapist Mark Donlevy is now facing nine charges of sexual assault after alleged victims came forward with complaints he touched them inappropriately. (The Dirty) A 48-year-old massage therapist from Saskatoon is now facing nine charges of sexual assault. On Friday morning, Mark Donlevy was charged with seven more counts of sexual assault, which allegedly took place between 2003 and 2015. In December, Donlevy was charged with an initial two counts of sexual assault. At the same time, the two women told police that Donlevy had touched them inappropriately while massaging them in his home-based business. Police investigating 3 new sexual assault claims against Saskatoon massage therapist 'You have no protection' massage association warns after masseur arrested The women reported the incidents to Police in September 2016 after observing posts online from other women stating they had similar experiences.   Donlevy will be held in custody until his bail hearing, which is scheduled for next week. 'Just take everything off' In December, CBC spoke to one of the women who came forward to police. The woman said she had gone to Donlevy's home at 1205 Main Street for a general massage in the summer of 2013. She said that he had a basement office with a massage table, television and couches. She said that the experience didn't feel right from the beginning. "He told me not to wear anything … just take everything off and go on the table," she said. Typically, therapists will give patients the option of wearing undergarments, a towel wrap or going nude. She says that Donlevy began by massaging her back and then slowly moving down between her legs. He spoke about how internal muscles could be affecting her tailbone, "and then he started talking dirty, about how this was turning him on." The woman said that Donlevy then undressed and had intercourse with her. "I told him continuously to stop but I'm not very forceful," she said. "Do I wish I'd found some way to make him stop? Yes. But I'm not going to go through all the victim blaming. I froze." The woman said she decided to speak out now because the other two victims came forward. "When I heard those stories, I decided to come out," she said. "There's relief that I'm not the only one. Relief that he will be stopped." With files from Dan Zakreski CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now