Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics 8 burning questions about the coming federal pot report The federal government is about to get advice that will help it decide how to go about legalizing pot. Here are some of the burning questions that may soon be answered. Social Sharing Who can buy and sell pot, where it will be sold, and who gets the profits, all up in the air Catherine Cullen · CBC News · Posted: Nov 30, 2016 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 30, 2016 Questions about legalizing recreational use of cannabis abound, but answers may come when the Liberal government's marijuana task force delivers its report. (David McNew/Reuters) comments The federal task force on marijuana regulation and legalization hands over its final report to the government today, moving Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's promise to legalize marijuana one step closer to completion. The nine members of the task force held roundtables with experts across the country, visited two U.S. states where pot is already legal and got advice from about 28,000 Canadians through online consultations.  It's expected to take days if not weeks for the government to publicly release the panel's report. When it does, here are some big outstanding questions to watch for. What age limit will it recommend? Two big reasons why Trudeau says he wants to legalize marijuana are to keep it out of the hands of "children" and to cut off profits to organized crime.   Setting the legal age too high could encourage young people to keep buying from criminal sources. However, the task force's own discussion paper notes that "science indicates that risks from marijuana usage are elevated until the brain fully matures (i.e., when someone reaches about age 25)." The U.S. states that have legalized marijuana sales have opted to match the legal drinking age of 21. In Canada, that age is lower — either 18 or 19 years old depending on the province. The Canadian Medical Association recommends the age limit be 21, with strict limits on quantity and potency until 25. Where should pot be sold? Trudeau and Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne have talked about selling marijuana at liquor stores, because the retail locations already have systems in place to control inventory and train staff. But one member of the pot task force has said there's a serious problem with selling marijuana just a few steps away from bottles of vodka?. Back in February, months before the task force was formed, B.C. Provincial Health Officer Dr. Perry Kendall told CBC News that the way alcohol is sold encourages consumption — not something the government wants to do with pot. There's also a "multiplier effect" when you drink and smoke pot, he said. Essentially, you wind up much more intoxicated. Again, that's certainly not part of Trudeau's stated objectives. The government could insist on one model for the whole country or let the provinces and territories decide individually. When will it go on sale? It's not clear whether the task force will tackle this topic. We know the government has committed to tabling legislation in spring 2017, but it will take time for that bill to become law and for a new system to be set up. The parliamentary budget officer talked with "industry stakeholders" and estimates recreational sales could start as early as January 2018. Who profits? Companies that already sell medical marijuana are certainly hoping to cash in. Their stocks have shot up. There's still a lot we don't know about who would be allowed to sell and distribute recreational marijuana, but potential corporate profits could be severely limited depending on what's decided about pricing and taxes. It's not clear whether this will be a cash cow for governments, either. Both the parliamentary budget officer and the head of the task force have warned profits might be relatively small right out of the gate. The federal government has also said tax revenue would be spent on drug treatment and rehabilitation services, along with research and public education. It's not clear whether the provinces and territories will face the same restrictions on their share of revenues. What about medical marijuana? The task force also looked at whether a parallel system would still be needed for medical marijuana users. If the government set the legal age for recreational pot at 21, but a patient who was 19 had a medical prescription to use pot, how would that situation be regulated? Similarly, if a patient had a prescription for high-potency marijuana that was not for sale in a retail outlet, how would that patient get the medicine?   Can you grow your own? It's not clear whether the new system would allow Canadians to grow their own marijuana and if there would be restrictions for home growers.  The prime minister's marijuana point person, Bill Blair, has said pot won't become just another backyard plant. "Unlike tomatoes, it is a substance that poses certain significant, both social and health harms, and risks to Canadians," he said in June. What criminal penalties? Possessing marijuana will be legal, but that doesn't mean there won't be pot-related crimes. The Liberal campaign platform promises "new, stronger laws" for selling to minors, drugged driving and selling outside the legal system. Will the government listen? The task force will make recommendations, but the government doesn't have to follow them. Just look at the assisted-dying debate: a joint committee of senators and MPs recommended medical aid in dying should be available to anyone who was suffering, even if they didn't have a terminal illness. The government decided that went too far and said a doctor-assisted death would only be granted to people whose death was "reasonably foreseeable." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ottawa bringing in stricter limits on medical marijuana for veterans Legal marijuana could raise federal cash — but not right away, PBO says Veterans allowed too much pot, says former NDP MP Peter Stoffer Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now