Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia·The Search A clinic that opened in 1971 is the future of Nova Scotia health care The North End Community Health Centre in Halifax uses equality, not hierarchy to treat patients. Doctors work in a team with nurses, a social worker and a nutritionist. Social Sharing At Halifax's North End Community Health Centre, doctors work alongside nurses, social worker and nutritionist Carolyn Ray · CBC News · Posted: Feb 14, 2018 6:00 AM AT | Last Updated: February 14, 2018 Marilyn Rutherford was one of the first nurse practitioners in Nova Scotia. She said having more nurse practitioners in medical clinics could help provide care, especially during the doctor shortage. (Brian MacKay/CBC) comments Long before collaborative-health centres became a trend, the model was thriving in Halifax's north end. The idea started in 1971 and has since evolved into a community hub. "There was no health facility in this part of the woods," said Dr. Anne Houstoun, who has worked at the North End Community Health Centre for 32 years. "So the community got together and rallied, that's how this one came about." The facility is governed by a board, and the health-care workers don't have to deal with administrative duties. Because it's a multi-functional health centre, it receives funding from the Nova Scotia Health Authority and charitable donations.  The clinic at the centre, which has a goal of seeing 6,750 patients a year, doesn't depend solely on the seven family doctors who work there part time. The team includes nurses, a social worker and a nutritionist. Their mandate isn't just to treat patients, but to educate and advocate for their needs. "To me it's the best health-care model," Houstoun said. The clinic is one of the success stories CBC Nova Scotia is examining as part of an in-depth look this month at the province's doctor shortage. THE SEARCHHelped along by dried fish, a rural community found its way on health care Dr. Anne Houstoun, who has been working at the clinic for 32 years, said it thrives because all the health-care workers are considered equals. (Brian MacKay/CBC) Instead of being compensated through fee-for-service, physicians on staff are paid a salary, which encourages them to take the time that's needed with each patient. "We happen to work in an area that has low socio-economic, so there's social challenges and other challenges," Houstoun said. "But this model would work anywhere." When Nova Scotia started training nurse practitioners, the North End Community Health Centre added two part-time positions to their roster. Marilyn Rutherford, who was in the second graduating class, started 13 years ago. "It's actually my dream job," she said. Rutherford's scope of work includes ordering X-rays, ultrasounds and prescribing medication. "I used to do outpost nursing, so I got a good feel for working independently but also collaboratively because physicians were at a distance. So this was kind of the next transition for me, and we have a very collaborative team here." Doctors work as part of a team at the health centre. (Brian MacKay/CBC) Rutherford's work isn't just limited to the building. One day a week, her job is outreach. With the help physicians, she compiles a list of patients who have difficulty leaving their homes and does wellness checks. While the province deals with its doctor shortage, Rutherford thinks more nurse practitioners could help. "I see how well it works here," she said. "I can't speak for all types of practices but I think this kind of collaborative model works very well." The staff at the clinic work under the philosophy that there is no hierarchy among the team. "That's a very key element whenever we're hiring, that you have to be on board with that," said Houstoun. "All the health-care providers have their own expertise and this egalitarian model, and that works very well." The Search: an in-depth look at Nova Scotia's doctor shortage THE SEARCHRural family medicine program draws residents for study — and keeps some, too The health-care workers have regular meetings to discuss cases. They share notes and files. A doctor, for instance, might be focused on a patient's high blood pressure and have "no clue as to what the problem was." But a nurse might know more about the patient's extended family and the stresses in their life. "It gives us a much broader source of information to understand our actual patient population," said Houstoun. After thriving for decades, she said it's clear that their collaboration is one that works. "I think it's a model if you look at broader health care, I think it's an excellent model that serves all kinds of needs, no matter what the population is." The Search'Why would you come?' Nova Scotia family doctors the worst paid in the country The SearchFrom the U.K. to rural Nova Scotia: why one doctor says the low pay is worth it About the Author Carolyn Ray Videojournalist Carolyn Ray is a videojournalist who has reported out of three provinces and two territories, and is now based in Halifax. You can reach her at Carolyn.Ray@cbc.ca With files from Melissa Oakley CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now