Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon 'A very difficult decision': Premier Scott Moe unveils new cabinet At a swearing in ceremony, Moe unveiled his choices for cabinet appointments, including newly appointed Deputy Premier and Education Minister Gordon Wyant and Minister of Advanced Education Tina Beaudry-Mellor. Social Sharing Gordon Wyant now deputy premier and education minister, Tina Beaudry-Mellor advanced education minister CBC News · Posted: Feb 02, 2018 9:30 AM CT | Last Updated: February 2, 2018 Premier Scott Moe has voiced his support for the Trans Mountain pipeline, but wrote in a Facebook post that the province of Saskatchewan would not impose retaliatory trade measures against British Columbia for roadblocks posed to the pipeline. (Alex Brockman/CBC News) Premier Scott Moe says his new cabinet is ready to get to work. At a swearing in ceremony Friday, Moe unveiled his choices for cabinet appointments, including newly appointed Deputy Premier and Education Minister Gordon Wyant and Minister of Advanced Education Tina Beaudry-Mellor. "Premier Wall always said this was a very difficult decision," Moe told reporters. "I understand precisely what he meant with those statements." Scott Moe and his new cabinet to be sworn in this week Brad Wall's senior advisor among 1st to switch roles 'I will fight for this province': Scott Moe to replace Brad Wall as Sask. premier after tight race While many cabinet ministers kept their old portfolios, Moe made some fairly large changes, including appointing MLA Bronwyn Eyre as minister of energy and resources as well as minister responsible for SaskWater and SaskEnergy. While Eyre raised concerns as education minister for comments she made on treaty education, Moe was confident she would do well in her new high-profile position. "Minister Eyre has a very important role in advancing the economy here, ensuring our goods get to market," he said.  Meanwhile, newly elected MLA Warren Kaeding takes on the role of minister of government relations and minister of First Nations, Métis and northern affairs. Now, the newly installed cabinet will get to work on this year's provincial budget. Premier Moe said the budget was one reason why many cabinet members, including Minister of Finance Donna Harpauer, stayed in their positions. "Many of our ministers are quite a ways into putting their budgets together for the next year," he said. "But I think there are some people, in particular leadership candidates, that have been out across the province interacting and communicating and listening to people in communities right across this province. "I think it's important for them to bring what they have heard directly into the government, directly into cabinet.." A date for this year's budget has not been set. Here is the list for new cabinet appointments: Gordon Wyant — Deputy Premier and Minister of Education Jeremy Harrison — Minister of Export and Trade Development and Minister of Immigration and Careers Training Tina Beaudry-Mellor — Minister of Advanced Education and Minister responsible for Innovation Saskatchewan and Status of Women Ken Cheveldayoff — Minister of Central Services and Minister responsible for the Public Service Commission and the Provincial Capital Commission Warren Kaeding — Minister of Government Relations and Minister of First Nations, Metis and Northern Affairs Bronwyn Eyre — Minister of Energy and Resources and Minister responsible for SaskWater and SaskEnergy Christine Tell — Minister of Corrections and Policing, and Minister responsible for Saskatchewan Gaming Corporation Meanwhile, 10 other ministers will retain their current cabinet responsibilities: Don Morgan — Minister of Justice and Attorney General, and Minister responsible for Labour Relations and Workplace Safety and Workers' Compensation Board while adding responsibility for the Global Transportation Hub and SaskTel Donna Harpauer — Minister of Finance Lyle Stewart — Minister of Agriculture and Minister responsible for Saskatchewan Crop Insurance Jim Reiter — Minister of Health Dustin Duncan — Minister of Environment and Minister responsible for the Water Security Agency and SaskPower Greg Ottenbreit — Minister of Rural and Remote Health David Marit — Minister of Highways and Infrastructure, and Minister responsible for SaskBuilds and Priority Saskatchewan Joe Hargrave — Minister of Crown Investments Corporation, and Minister responsible for Saskatchewan Government Insurance Paul Merriman — Minister of Social Services Gene Makowsky — Minister of Parks, Culture and Sport, and Minister responsible for the Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority while adding responsibility for Tourism Saskatchewan Moe won the Saskatchewan Party leadership race last weekend. On Monday, Moe met with Lt.-Gov. Vaughn Solomon Schofield who asked him to form government.  He was elected at the party convention with 8,075 votes — or 53.7 per cent of the overall vote — after five rounds of voting.? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now