Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Abbotsford seeks to banish marijuana magnate Donald Briere The City of Abbotsford is stepping up its battle with the so-called 'Tim Hortons of pot' by taking Don Briere to court in a bid to shut his remaining marijuana dispensary. Social Sharing Supreme Court petition seeks order forcing so-called Tim Hortons of pot to shut remaining business Jason Proctor · CBC News · Posted: Mar 16, 2016 5:00 AM PT | Last Updated: March 16, 2016 The city of Abbotsford is back in B.C. Supreme Court in a bid to prevent pot magnate Don Briere from operating a marijuana dispensary within city limits. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) comments The City of Abbotsford is stepping up its battle with the so-called Tim Hortons of pot. Two months after obtaining its first injunction against one of Don Briere's marijuana dispensaries, Abbotsford has now filed a petition seeking to keep the pot-trepreneur out of the community entirely. According to documents filed in B.C. Supreme Court Tuesday, Abbotsford wants an order to close Mary Jane's Glass and Gifts Ltd. on South Fraser Way. Abbotsford runs pot shops out of town But the city is also seeking an order "prohibiting Donald Joseph Briere from operating an unlawful marijuana dispensary in the City of Abbotsford either personally or through any corporation or society of which he is a director, officer, shareholder or member." Empire built on cannabis Briere operates an empire of more than a dozen Weeds and Mary Jane marijuana dispensaries in B.C. and Ontario, with the bulk of his businesses located in Vancouver. Abbotsford Mayor Henry Braun has vowed to keep dispensaries out of his community because he says they are prohibited by federal law. In January, the city obtained an injunction against one of the Weeds locations. Abbotsford Mayor Henry Braun has vowed to keep marijuana dispensaries out of his community. (CBC) Reached by telephone, Briere said he closed that business, which left him with two Mary Jane outlets. But he says the operator of one of the businesses shut his doors in the face of mounting fines. Briere said he's been racking up daily fines at the remaining location, which is now the subject of the Supreme Court petition. He said the mayor is out of step with a recent federal court ruling which recognizes the right of medical marijuana patients to access pot of their choosing. "I don't care if you believe the earth is flat, but don't fine me 800 dollars a day because you believe the earth is flat," he said.  "A lot of people are really miffed with the mayor, and they don't understand why he's doing this." Issuance of licence prohibited According to the latest petition, the city argues that Briere's remaining dispensary is prohibited from operating without a business licence. "As the retail sale of marijuana is not lawful, Mary Jane does not have, and cannot obtain, the requisite approval from the federal government for the dispensary," the document reads. "Issuance of a business licence is thereby prohibited." The city is also seeking special costs against Briere. In contrast, the City of Vancouver has decided to issue business licences to pot dispensaries in an attempt to regulate them. Briere called the legal challenges a waste of taxpayer money. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Vancouver marijuana dispensaries: Only 11 of 176 approved by city How legalized marijuana could change Canadian cities Abbotsford runs pot shops out of town while Vancouver regulates Analysis Marijuana dispensaries: citizens caught between Ottawa, pot activists B.C. liquor stores press for right to sell legal pot Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now