Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Alanna Koch denies 'absolutely ridiculous accusation' she received debate questions ahead of time Alanna Koch says she did well in the Sask. Party leadership debate in Weyburn because she knows what she's talking about — not because she received questions ahead of time. Social Sharing Sask. Party leadership candidate says 'strong' debating skills a result of civil service work CBC News · Posted: Dec 11, 2017 10:43 AM CT | Last Updated: December 11, 2017 Saskatchewan Party leadership candidate Alanna Koch speaks during her leadership run announcement event on a farm just south of Regina, Saskatchewan on August 28, 2017. (Brandon Harder/CBC) Three Saskatchewan Party candidates expressed concern last week that questions for the Weyburn leadership debate on Nov. 30 may have been leaked to one candidate ahead of time. Alanna Koch is having none of it. According to the party, candidates Gord Wyant, Tina Beaudry-Mellor and Scott Moe submitted a signed letter last week, detailing their concerns but did not name the suspected culprit in the letter. "I do appreciate the acknowledgement that I was very strong at the debate. However, if I would have known the questions, I hope that I would have done even better," Koch said in a press release. 3 Sask. Party leadership candidates raise concerns debate questions may have been leaked to opponent Sask. Party leadership candidates 'living in the shadow of Brad Wall': prof Instead, Koch claims her performance at the debate was the result of her work as a government employee. "In every debate, I anticipate regional questions and am always well prepared." Koch called the allegations an "absolutely ridiculous accusation," which she suspects is an attempt to discredit her campaign. The letter has been forwarded to the leadership organizing committee for review and potential investigation. The Sask. Party will choose its new leader next month after Premier Brad Wall announced he would be retiring from politics. Whoever is elected the next party leader will also become the next premier of Saskatchewan.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Q&A It's time for Sask. Party renewal, says leadership candidate Tina Beaudry-Mellor Q&A Sask. Party leadership candidate Scott Moe says population growth is No. 1 priority Q&A Sask. Party leadership candidate Rob Clarke talks job creation in northern Sask., GTH inquiry and wage freeze Q&A Sask. Party supporters 'don't feel as warm' in party as they once felt, says leadership candidate Gord Wyant Sask. does not have a problem with racism, says Sask. Party leadership candidate Ken Cheveldayoff Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now