Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia 'Analysis paralysis' stalling rural internet in N.S., entrepreneur says A woman who runs a global consulting firm out of Annapolis Royal is expressing her frustration with a new report which assesses the state of rural internet in Nova Scotia. Social Sharing Reaction to a consultant's report, commissioned by the province, on the state of rural internet Nina Corfu · CBC News · Posted: Jun 22, 2016 8:00 AM AT | Last Updated: June 22, 2016 In 2006, Premier Rodney MacDonald promised all Nova Scotians would have access to broadband internet by 2010. That didn't happen. (Daniel Munoz/Reuters) A woman who runs a global consulting firm out of Annapolis Royal is expressing her frustration with a new report, released by the province this week, which assesses the state of rural internet in Nova Scotia, saying it's time to trade analysis for action. The approximately $100,000 report, released by Nova Scotia's Department of Business on Monday and prepared by Ernst & Young, analyzed the quality and range of internet services in the province and outlined some technical solutions, as well as their potential costs.  "It's analysis paralysis and it makes me crazy," Lisa Larter said. "Let's go hire a consultant and spend all this money to find out the same old crap. They've been doing analysis, since what, 2006?" Larter said the internet service at her summer cottage in Parker's Cove, outside Annapolis Royal, seemed to be getting worse just before she made the decision to move her home and business there from Ottawa. She said she called Eastlink, and was assured it would improve. She made the move, only to find the service was worse than ever, and working from home was impossible, Larter said. She scrambled to find office space in Annapolis Royal, and finally set up shop in a former internet cafe, she said. "I literally spend $15,000 to $20,000 a year running this space because I can't get internet at home. Isn't that crazy?" Not about Netflix Larter said economic development in rural areas relies on high-speed internet. "This isn't about streaming Netflix," she said. "This is about people's livelihood, people being able to start small businesses and make a difference in the lives of their families." "Even if you're making an additional $500 a month because you're operating a business online, all of that money goes back into the community," Larter said. "People can't do that from here, because the internet doesn't work." Nova Scotia has faster internet than the rest of Canada, PCMag says Avoiding the mistakes of the past Elspeth McLean-Wile is another Nova Scotian who can't get high-speed internet at her home in Wileville, just outside Bridgewater, even though many of her neighbours can. But she said she's satisfied with the current government's approach. In 2006, Premier Rodney MacDonald promised all Nova Scotians would have access to broadband internet by 2010. But that didn't happen.   "It was over-promised, under-delivered, and just infuriated people," MacLean-Wile said. "So I think, in attempt to get around all that, and not repeat the same mistake, the government is taking time to really look at this." No immediate fix MacLean-Wile, who chaired a public meeting alongside the Minister of Business at the Newcombville Firehall on Monday, said the consultant's report drives home the complexity of the problem. The challenges are wide-ranging, she said. "There isn't an immediate fix," and any solutions are going to take time — and cost money — to implement. Nova Scotia's Department of Business announced in a press release it plans to ask municipalities for proposals related to rural internet, issue a call for information from service providers, and hire a team with technical expertise to develop a detailed plan and work with communities on projects for further development. That team is expected to be in place this fall. High-speed internet lawsuit finally gets to Nova Scotia Supreme Court With files from Information Morning CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now