Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Annapolis County to borrow $13M to install fibre-optic internet Areas like Annapolis County are hoping better internet access will attract and retain newcomers. Social Sharing 'You'll be able to be connected to the rest of the world ... and still have a rural way of life' Pam Berman · CBC News · Posted: May 17, 2017 5:00 PM AT | Last Updated: May 17, 2017 The Municipality of the County of Annapolis has announced plans to borrow millions of dollars to install a fibre-optic system. (Denis Rozhnovsky/Shutterstock) Neighbouring municipalities hope to join Annapolis County when it comes to high-speed internet projects in Nova Scotia. "Annapolis County is ahead of the curve," said Peter Muttart, mayor of the Municipality of the County of Kings. "I congratulate them." The Municipality of the County of Annapolis announced Tuesday it plans to borrow $13 million to install a fibre-optic system. The loan would be paid back over time by the internet provider, Mainland Telecom, and its customers. The municipality has also applied for $4.1 million in federal and provincial funding. 18 month timeline John Ferguson, CAO for Annapolis, said it's hoped four crews will begin working on the project this summer. "We believe from start to finish, once we get on the ground, it'll take 18 months," he said. Ferguson said he believes the move will help Annapolis County attract and retain people. "You'll be able to be connected to the rest of the world with some of the highest speeds that you can find in Canada," said Ferguson. "And still have a rural way of life." Kings County has also applied for funding from Ottawa and the province with the hope of getting started this year. "Our professional advice is that we can supply 65 per cent of our rural population with high-speed internet," said Muttart. Joint application The Municipality of the District of Digby is part of a joint application with four other municipalities in southwestern Nova Scotia for a federal internet grant: Argyle, Barrington, Clare and Yarmouth. It was made through the Western Regional Enterprise Network. "We're also open to partnering with other municipalities," said Angelique LeBlanc, network CEO. "It depends on who is able to get federal funds." The municipalities could form a municipal corporation to borrow the money needed but they have not yet partnered with an internet provider. LeBlanc expects a number of decisions to be made this year, with construction happening in 2018. Want high-speed internet? Build it yourself, like these villagers High-speed internet a 'basic right,' says premier as connection projects announced About the Author Pam Berman Reporter Pam Berman is CBC Nova Scotia's municipal affairs reporter. She's been a journalist for almost 35 years and has covered Halifax regional council since 1997. That includes four municipal elections, 19 budgets and countless meetings. Story ideas can be sent to pam.berman@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Want high-speed internet? Build it yourself, like these villagers High-speed internet a 'basic right,' says premier as connection projects announced Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now