Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Appeal court upholds sexual assault conviction for Sask. massage therapist Saskatchewan's Court of Appeal has dismissed a conviction appeal and increased the sentence for a massage therapist found guilty of sexually assaulting a client with a mental capacity of an 11- to 13-year-old. Social Sharing Saskatchewan's highest court also ruled 22-months in jail is 'unfit' and increased that time to 3 years Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: May 20, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: May 20, 2017 Laurie Thompson, a massage therapist who practised in Eston and Kindersley, has been convicted of sexually assaulting an adult patient who has the mental abilities of an 11-to-13-year-old girl. (Facebook) Warning: Content is disturbing Saskatchewan's highest court has dismissed an appeal and increased the sentence for a massage therapist found guilty of sexually assaulting a woman with a mental capacity of an 11-to-13-year-old girl. In April 2015, a Saskatoon judge sentenced Laurie Thompson, who practised in Kindersley, Sask.,to 22 months in jail and two years probation for sexually assaulting a client. During the trial, he admitted to to sexually touching the woman, who is now 36, around 100 times over a number of years in his office. Court heard he inserted his fingers into her vagina during the sessions, which began in the late 1990s. Massage therapist sentenced to jail for sexually assaulting client Saskatchewan massage therapist allowed to practise despite sexually assaulting client The woman cannot be named, as her identity is protected under a publication ban. According to a recent decision by Saskatchewan's Court of Appeal, Thompson appealed his conviction on the basis that the trial judge overlooked the credibility of the complainant and "argues that the verdict as a whole was unreasonable." Convicted argues touching was consensual  Thompson also argued the trial judge did not take into account the possibility of "honest but mistaken belief in consent," and a proper analysis of the trust and authority issue. At trial, Thompson testified that he always asked the complainant for verbal permission before touching her, but in a statement to police indicated she did not say anything during massage sessions. The complainant said she didn't consent. The trial judge determined Thompson's sexual touching was not consensual and he was in a position of trust as a massage therapist and friend of the complainant's family. Court hands down stiffer sentence The court dismissed the verdict appeal, but granted a sentence appeal from the Crown. The Crown argued the trial judge "misapprehended the gravity of the offence" by Thompson by not categorizing it as a major sexual assault due to the lack of violence and penile penetration. "Sexual assault is an implicitly violent offence against the integrity of a person's body even where there may be no explicit violence," the decision reads. The Crown said during trial, the judge erred by minimizing factors like the complainant's mental capacity, level of vulnerability and psychological harm experienced. As a result of the errors, the court sided with the Crown that Thompson's sentence of 22 months in jail was as unfit and replaced it with three years incarceration. "This was not a case where the touching occurred once or a few times. Rather, it was a persistent course of abusive conduct spread over many years," the decision reads, adding Thompson was in a position of authority and trust.   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Saskatoon massage therapist facing sexual assault charges Toronto massage therapist charged with sexually assaulting a client Calgary massage therapist charged with sexual assault Unqualified osteopathic therapist charged a 2nd time with sexual assault 7 more sexual assault charges laid against Saskatoon massage therapist Saskatoon massage therapist charged with sexual assault let out on bail External Links Appeal court decision: Crown vs. Thompson Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now