Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Approval rating for Premier Brad Wall falls 6 points in Sask.: poll Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall has dipped in popularity but still has one of the highest approval ratings nationally, according to a new Mainstreet/Postmedia poll Social Sharing Brad Wall is sitting at a 46% approval rating, compared to 52% in 2016, says new Mainstreet/Postmedia poll Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Jun 22, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: June 22, 2017 A new Mainstreet/Postmedia poll shows Premier Brad Wall's approval rating in Saskatchewan has slipped six points since 2016 (Trent Peppler/CBC) Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall's approval rating in his home province has slipped since 2016, according to a new Mainstreet/Postmedia poll.  Brad Wall's popularity drops in wake of unpopular budget New poll show lowest support for Sask. Party in 8 years but premier 'surprised' by backing after budget Sask. Party would 'most likely' lose election if held today: pollster According to the results released on Thursday, Brad Wall received a 40-per-cent approval rating on a national level —down two percentage points since last year — compared to a 33-per-cent disapproval rating.  He tied with recently re-elected B.C Premier Christy Clark for a 40 per cent national approval rating.  A breakdown of the results shows that Wall's greatest out-of-province support comes from Manitoba respondents, with 61- per-cent approval, which is similar to last year's findings.  Mainstreet surveyed 5,250 people across the country over the phone over four days last week.  The margin of error for the entire sample group was +/- 1.35 percentage points, and grew to +/- 4.38 percentage points for the 500 people quizzed in Saskatchewan. The approval rating of some Canadian premiers according to people within their home provinces. (Mainstreet/Postmedia) 6-point slip Results from respondents in Wall's own province tell a slightly different story.  The poll shows 49 per cent disapprove of Wall, compared to the 46 per cent who approve and five per cent who were not sure.  The approval rating is a six-point slip since 2016 when Wall had an approval rating of 52 per cent within his home province.  But Wall fared relatively better than most other premiers.  The lowest-scoring premiers in their home provinces were Ontario's Kathleen Wynne with a 70-per-cent disapproval rating compared to a 19-per-cent approval, which is similar to Newfoundland and Labrador Dwight Ball, who also scored a 70-per-cent disapproval rating.  Low approval for Trudeau in Sask. Poll results show Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is sitting at a 54-per-cent national approval rating, but people in this province aren't big fans.  In Saskatchewan, he earned a 48-per-cent approval rating, which was the second lowest only to Alberta at 36 per cent.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Political panel weighs in on tough week for Sask. Party Brad Wall's popularity drops in wake of unpopular budget New poll shows lowest support for Sask. Party in 8 years but premier 'surprised' by backing after budget Sask. Party would 'most likely' lose election if held today: pollster Premier Brad Wall's popularity dropping but he's still the preferred leader: poll Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now