Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan As federal pot plan rolls out, Sask. government wants a few things cleared up The Liberal government's legislation to legalize recreational pot use has been met with questions and concerns from the Saskatchewan government. Social Sharing Province shares initial thoughts about marijuana legalization Adam Hunter · CBC News · Posted: Apr 13, 2017 2:08 PM CT | Last Updated: April 13, 2017 Before marijuana becomes legal in 2018, the Saskatchewan government has a number of things it would like to see cleared up. (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press) The Liberal government's legislation to legalize recreational pot use has been met with questions and concerns from the Saskatchewan government. Liberals table bills to legalize pot, clamp down on impaired driving Sask. justice minister has 'real concerns' about marijuana legislation On Thursday, the province provided its initial thoughts in a statement. The province says it's reviewing the tabled legislation. It said while Ottawa outlined a framework for legalization, important details are still not clear. The following concerns were shared by the Saskatchewan government in the statement: Public safety risks associated with marijuana impaired driving: "We are happy to see the zero-tolerance approach but at the same time it is incredibly difficult for police to identify who is impaired as technology is not yet proven in this area." Minimum age set to 18 but up to provinces to ultimately decide: "We are concerned that the lack of consistency across provinces could be problematic." Costs to train drug recognition experts: "We hope to see federal funding to accompany the strengthening of marijuana impaired driving." Distribution and taxation: "We will also need to look at best ways of distribution and taxation as none of those details are contained in the bill tabled in the House of Commons today." Costs to implement and meet legislation: "We expect the federal government will provide funding where required and work to clarify some of these questions we have." The government did applaud Ottawa for some aspects of the new law. Selling to minors: "We are glad to see that the federal government has created increased penalties for people who provide marijuana to young persons." Minimum age: "We are pleased that the federal government will allow provinces to determine the minimum age of consumption." Minister of Justice Gordon Wyant has also sent a letter to the federal government asking who will pay for extra training for police officers to detect impairment due to marijuana in drivers. Federal law The pot plan comes with two new bills: one to regulate the recreational use, sale and cultivation of marijuana; and a second that strengthens impaired driving measures. POINT OF VIEW | Sask. has more wiggle room to tax marijuana than rest of country, study says It allows people to possess up to 30 grams of dried or fresh cannabis and sets the minimum allowed age at 18, though provinces can set a higher legal age. The province said it will now get to work towards July 1, 2018: the date the federal government has targeted for pot to become legal.  About the Author Adam Hunter Journalist Adam Hunter is the provincial affairs reporter at CBC Saskatchewan, based in Regina. He has been with CBC for 13 years. He hosts the CBC podcast On the Ledge. Follow him on Twitter @AHiddyCBC. Contact him: adam.hunter@cbc.ca With files from CBC's Kathleen Harris CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Liberals table bills to legalize pot, clamp down on impaired driving Sask. justice minister has 'real concerns' about marijuana legislation Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now