Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia As legalization looms, more Metro Vancouver cities outlaw dispensaries and cannabis production Suburbs of Metro Vancouver are digging in their heels against the sale and production of cannabis ahead of looming federal regulation of the drug. Social Sharing Delta, White Rock the latest to review bylaws as they wait for provincial regulation Maryse Zeidler · CBC News · Posted: Feb 01, 2018 7:04 AM PT | Last Updated: February 1, 2018 Almost all the municipalities in Metro Vancouver prohibit the sale of marijuana for medical or recreational purposes. (Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg) comments Some Metro Vancouver cities are digging in their heels against the sale and production of cannabis ahead of looming federal legalization of the drug. While Vancouver has chosen to license dispensaries, most municipalities in the Lower Mainland are banning them until the province decides how to regulate sales. Marijuana will be legal in Canada as of July 1, but it will be up to the provinces to decide how the product is distributed. On Tuesday, Delta held a public hearing on a sweeping bylaw change that includes, among many other items, the prohibition of cannabis dispensaries. White Rock held a public hearing on Monday to ban dispensaries within city limits.  "Well, it's illegal," said White Rock Mayor Wayne Baldwin. "That's a good reason." Dispensary Releaf says some of its members can't travel to cities like Vancouver to access medical marijuana. (CBC) Baldwin said councillors in his city aren't disputing the medicinal value of cannabis, they're merely following federal laws. He points out that cities in B.C. that do allow dispensaries tend to have their own police force — including Vancouver, Victoria and Nelson. Others, like White Rock, are policed by RCMP, which enforce federal laws.  The cities of Burnaby, Richmond and Surrey all said they don't allow dispensaries to operate. They say they're waiting for provincial regulations to come into play to see how they will be able to navigate within those rules. 'It's going to be interesting times' Baldwin said White Rock may try to ban dispensaries even after marijuana is legalized. The city will hold more hearings and public consultations to gauge residents' response.  "It's going to be interesting times," he said.  One group that opposed White Rock's ban was Releaf, a compassion centre that provides education and distributes medical marijuana. ALR rules allow federally licensed marijuana growers to produce pot on agricultural land. (Aphria/Canadian Press) The business used to operate in White Rock before it was destroyed in a fire in 2015. "To create a bylaw about dispensaries that encompasses both medical and recreational marijuana is a disservice to the community," said Tara Cain, Releaf's executive director. Cain said White Rock's older demographic means residents aren't always able to travel to places like Vancouver to access medical marijuana.  Grow-op 'gold rush' Another issue that some municipalities have to deal with is cannabis production, especially those with more rural areas.  In Delta, the city is looking to keep current rules that forbid growing cannabis except on farms governed by the Agricultural Land Reserve, over which the city doesn't have much jurisdiction. High on the agenda: Delta mayor champions produce over pot at UBCM Marijuana is the new crop for B.C. produce company Village Farms The ALR, which was established to protect food security, currently does allow federally licensed medical cannabis as an agricultural crop. But the province said a committee is currently reviewing the regulations and will provide recommendations "soon."  Meanwhile, a new group named Citizens Protecting Agricultural Land has started a campaign called Stop Now that aims to "tackle what many believe is a looming 'gold rush' of marijuana grow-ops on B.C.'s prime farmland in the Agricultural Land Reserve."  About the Author Maryse Zeidler @MaryseZeidler Maryse Zeidler is a reporter for CBC News in Vancouver, covering news from across British Columbia. You can reach her at maryse.zeidler@cbc.ca. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Can pot cause hallucinations? Report of officers who allegedly ate edibles fuels debate StatsCan uses crowdsourcing to collect data on pot prices Victoria scores legal victory in closing unauthorized pot shops Williams Lake could be the 'cannabis capital' of B.C., says city councillor Opinion Why we should stay focused on original policy objectives of legalizing marijuana Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now