Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia B.C. municipalities want at least half the money province makes on pot sales B.C. municipalities want 50 per cent — or more — of the money the province makes on legal cannabis sales in order to offset the increased costs they say they will face to regulate the industry. Social Sharing Legal cannabis will lead to increased policing, social costs, city leaders say Andrew Kurjata · CBC News · Posted: Feb 15, 2018 6:00 AM PT | Last Updated: February 15, 2018 The federal government has worked out a revenue-sharing agreement with provinces and territories when it comes to marijuana sales, but B.C. cities say they need a cut, too. (Jim Young/Reuters) Some B.C. municipalities want 50 per cent — or more — of the money the province makes on legal cannabis sales in order to offset the increased costs they say they will face to regulate the industry. The federal government has agreed to give 75 cents of every tax dollar collected to provinces and territories, but so far municipalities have not been cut into the deal. That doesn't sit well with West Kelowna Mayor Doug Findlater, who has led a letter-writing campaign to the province asking for about half of the provincial revenue, or 37 per cent of total tax revenue from cannabis. Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram "There are considerable costs" with marijuana legalization, Findlater said. He said West Kelowna expects to hire additional bylaw staff in order to deal with the new industry.  West Kelowna Mayor Doug Findlater said the province needs to provide municipalities with a way to cover the costs of enforcing new rules around legal marijuana sales. (CBC) So far, Findlater said he's received support from about 40 other communities and knows others are taking their own approach. In Fort St. John, city council has suggested 50 per cent may not be enough to cover the additional costs marijuana sales will impose on the community. Council has instructed staff to investigate the issue. Coun. Larry Evans noted there may also be the need to hire more RCMP and enforcement officers. "We can't just say 50 per cent and lock that in without any consultation at all, because it may be more than 50 per cent it's going to cost us."  Edmonton, Regina estimate cannabis costs will be in the millions In Alberta, Edmonton has estimated it will spend up to $11 million extra a year for bylaw enforcement and RCMP staff once cannabis is legal, while Regina has estimated an additional $1 million or more in policing costs. Weed revenues on Edmonton mayor's wish list for Ottawa trip Legal cannabis will cost Regina police more than $1M a year, report says The B.C. government is still working out the details of how cannabis sales will be managed, although it has announced they will take place in a standalone network of public retail stores, separate from liquor. Local governments will also have the power to decide where or if the retail outlets are allowed to be located in their communities.  Mixed attitudes across the province Some B.C. municipalities are embracing the new industry, including Williams Lake, which has announced plans to become the "cannabis capital" of the province.  Others, such as Taylor and Richmond, have voted to not allow any marijuana sales in the community. Williams Lake could be the 'cannabis capital' of B.C., says city councillor City of Richmond council unanimous in its opposition to cannabis legalization Findlater said he hasn't had a response from the province on his revenue-sharing proposal, but said with legalization scheduled for July, he hopes a decision is made soon. "We've had bits and pieces... but they're going to have to come out with this pretty quick," he said. With files from Josh Pagé and CBC Radio West About the Author Andrew Kurjata CBC Prince George | @akurjata Andrew Kurjata is an award-winning journalist covering Northern British Columbia for CBC Radio and cbc.ca, situated in unceded Lheidli T'enneh territory in Prince George. You can email him at andrew.kurjata@cbc.ca. Twitter: @akurjata Facebook: /akurjata More from CBC British Columbia Interior and North CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Williams Lake could be the 'cannabis capital' of B.C., says city councillor Weed revenues on Edmonton mayor's wish list for Ottawa trip B.C. unveils pot plans: marijuana to be sold in standalone government stores, separate from liquor Legal cannabis will cost Regina police more than $1M a year, report says Legal marijuana could be lifeline for B.C. towns hit by industry losses Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now