Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia B.C. to begin rolling out pot legislation this week Expect some long-awaited details from the province this week on how marijuana will be regulated when it becomes legal in July 2018. Social Sharing Policy framework for non-medicinal marijuana likely introduced Thursday, but no details yet on pricing, stores Justin McElroy · CBC News · Posted: Apr 25, 2018 3:00 AM PT | Last Updated: April 25, 2018 Solicitor General Mike Farnworth announces a public engagement process for the regulation of marijuana in British Columbia on Sept. 25, 2017 (Justin McElroy/CBC) comments Expect some long-awaited details from the province this week on how marijuana will be regulated when it becomes legal in July.  Just not how much things will cost or where public stores will be.  Solicitor General Mike Farnworth has told CBC News legislation will likely be brought in Thursday to give a policy framework for government rules, first outlined in February, around non-medicinal cannabis. Those include setting the legal age at 19, allowing adults to possess up to 30 grams of non-medicinal cannabis at a time, stiff penalties for adults driving while impaired, bans on smoking in beaches, parks and playgrounds and veto power to municipalities on applications for any retail licence.   B.C. unveils pot plans: marijuana to be sold in standalone government stores, separate from liquor However, rules on pricing, along with locations for the public standalone stores operated by the Liquor Distribution Branch, will not be revealed.  "I've been clear, right from the beginning, you're not going to see whole piles of stores up and running right away. It will be ramping up. We will be working with local governments, because they're the ones that have to implement it," said Farnworth.  A spokesperson for the ministry said both an e-commerce platform for online purchase across the province and the first government-operated retail store should be up and running by the summer.   Behind other provinces Despite B.C.'s extensive cannabis industry, it's behind other provinces in starting the process for licensing and distribution. Quebec announced the location of its first four pot stores on Monday and Ontario did the same earlier this month, while the City of Calgary received over 220 applications for licences on Wednesday.  "I would have thought B.C. would have been leading in this area, not lagging behind every other province in this country. I think we're the last to table legislation and that is unfortunate, because we should be leaders on this issue," said Kirk Tousaw, a lawyer specializing in cannabis laws.  Licensed, unlicensed: how effective are Vancouver's dispensary bylaws? He's not overly concerned about not knowing where the government will put its stores, but worries about the short window private dispensaries could have to apply for licences and comply with new regulations.  "How do you apply? Who can apply? How easy is it for these existing dispensaries to transition to legality and is there going to be some kind of grace period where these organizations will be able to continue servicing their members?" Farnworth said part of the reason for the delay was because of their commitment to work with municipalities — but also the fact they were a new government.  "We had an election year, and, as a result, we weren't able to get working on this file. Instead, we were sworn in in July," he said.  Medical marijuana shop owner warns of 'upcoming gap in supply' following legalization About the Author Justin McElroy @j_mcelroy Justin is the Municipal Affairs Reporter for CBC Vancouver, covering local political stories throughout British Columbia. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Shortage of legal weed would be a gift to black market, research suggests: Don Pittis Public and private stores to sell recreational pot in B.C., with 19 as the purchasing age B.C. unveils pot plans: marijuana to be sold in standalone government stores, separate from liquor Blunt demands: B.C. seeks money for pot regulation, transit, housing in federal budget Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now