Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Board members appointed to new Saskatchewan Health Authority The new board members include three people with experience in the finance sector, two business people, a lawyer, an educator and three people from the health field. Social Sharing Single health board will replace 12 regional boards likely by fall CBC News · Posted: Jun 14, 2017 10:02 AM CT | Last Updated: June 14, 2017 Health Minister Jim Reiter announced new board members for the new Saskatchewan Health Authority Wednesday morning. (CBC) The Saskatchewan government has announced the board of directors for the new Saskatchewan Health Authority, anticipated to launch this fall. At that point, the province's 12 regional health boards will dissolve and be replaced by a single board. The government says the aim of moving to a single health board is to improve patient care, increase efficiencies and reduce duplication across the health system. Unions have voiced concerns about job losses and patient care. Health minister Jim Reiter announced the appointments at the Wascana Rehab Centre in Regina on Wednesday morning. Ten members have been appointed for three-year terms: R.W. (Dick) Carter, chairperson, Regina Grant Kook, vice-chairperson, Saskatoon Judy Davis, Regina Robert Pletch, Regina Tom Zurowski, Saskatoon Brenda Abrametz, Prince Albert Dr. Janet Tootoosis, North Battleford? Marilyn Charlton, Weyburn Donald Rae, Yorkton Rosalena Smith, Pinehouse Lake The members include three people with experience in the finance sector, two business people, a lawyer, an educator and three people from the health field.  Reiter said he was pleased with the board members' varied backgrounds and experience in governance. "It's a 10-person board and I wanted to have five people with experience on regional health boards, so you have some corporate background, corporate knowledge there, and also five people who aren't, so you have new sets of eyes and ideas." The board will be able to legally begin governing operations once the Provincial Health Authority Act is proclaimed. Reiter said he estimates the transition will happen in October or November. The government says the board will act in an advisory capacity in the meantime to help guide the transition. The newly appointed chairperson, Dick Carter, said he had spoken to all the new board members over the weekend. "They're all very eager," he said. Carter said the board's first priority is helping review and recommend potential candidates for chief executive officer, and they'll be looking for someone with experience and a good track record of HR relations who would be "enthused about his new role" and make patients a priority. Reiter has previously said he hoped to fill that position by the end of August. The new health authority's policy arm will be based in Regina while the operations division will be in Saskatoon. New province-wide health authority to be based in Saskatoon CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories New province-wide health authority to be based in Saskatoon Sask. health minister admits government likely won't meet target on wait times Health Authority working to grow College of Medicine in Regina Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now