Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Brad Wall's senior advisor among 1st to switch roles Three days before Scott Moe won the Saskatchewan Party leadership, the man who stood by Brad Wall’s side during his decade in office switched positions. Social Sharing Reg Downs moves positions inside Executive Council Adam Hunter · CBC News · Posted: Jan 30, 2018 3:37 PM CT | Last Updated: January 30, 2018 Don Morgan (left) and premier-designate Scott Moe (right) walk in front of Reg Downs (back left) and Ken Krawetz (back right). Downs and Krawetz are leading the new premier's transition. (CBC) Three days before Scott Moe won the Saskatchewan Party leadership, the man who stood by Brad Wall's side during his decade in office switched positions. Reg Downs, a friend of Wall's since university, longtime advisor and most recently the senior advisor to the premier in the premier's office, will move to cabinet planning as a senior policy advisor. The position still lies within Executive Council. Downs begins his new role on July 1. The decision was made during Wall's final cabinet meeting on Jan. 24. Downs and Ken Krawetz, who was Wall's chief of staff, are leading the transition from Wall to Moe. On Tuesday, Downs and Krawetz followed Moe and Deputy Premier Don Morgan into the premier-designate's first caucus meeting. Moe was met with a standing ovation from his caucus colleagues, 23 of whom backed his leadership campaign. Scott Moe and his new cabinet to be sworn in this week OpinionBrad Wall's shoes 'impossible' to fill for newly-minted Scott Moe On Monday, Moe did not elaborate on which positions within the premier's office will change. He said he didn't anticipate wholesale changes but said there would be some "renewal." He said he would hang on to the corporate memory which he said is "so important for any successful organization." Alanna Koch lost the leadership race by 1,100 votes. She could potentially return to her role as deputy minister to the premier, working for Scott Moe. (Alex Brockman/CBC) While the names of those who surround and advise the premier may not be well-known, they are the un-elected voices and opinions the leader will lean on while governing the province. Next steps for Alanna Koch unclear after coming in 2nd in Sask. Party leadership race 'I will fight for this province': Scott Moe to replace Brad Wall as Sask. premier after tight race Alanna Koch, who came second in the leadership race, took a leave from her position as deputy minister to the premier to run. She did not reveal if she intended to return to her old job. Moe said he has talked to all of the unsuccessful leadership candidates and will again about what their roles may be going forward. "We'll discuss opportunities for all of us as we move forward to participate in the Saskatchewan Party and the Saskatchewan Party government," Moe said Monday. Scott Moe to maintain the status quo — and that's what Sask. Party voters want During the leadership campaign, Wall's longtime communications chief Kathy Young came into the spotlight. Three of the candidates, including Moe, sent a letter of complaint to the Saskatchewan Party on Dec. 8, about a week after a leadership debate in Weyburn. Shortly after the complaint was launched, CBC News learned an email chain involving Young, the premier's chief of operations and communications, sparked the complaint about an alleged leak of information to Koch's campaign. On Nov. 29, Young had sent a question to the minister of health's chief of staff, looking for information about nurse practitioners. The following night, a question about nurse practitioners was posed to the candidates at the leadership debate in Weyburn. Former Premier Brad Wall with Kathy Young, his chief of operations and communications. It is not clear whether Wall's replacement Scott Moe will retain Young. (Jason Franson/The Canadian Press) At the time, Young told CBC News, "I can tell you that at no time were any debate questions shared with any leadership campaign prior to any of the debates." The Saskatchewan Party's leadership organizing committee (LEOC) investigated the complaint and found it was justified but said there was no evidence Young provided questions to Koch, her campaign manager or anyone else prior to the Weyburn debate. "There were however specific inquiries by Ms. Young of the various ministerial office staff on topics which were the subject of the Weyburn debate," the LEOC said of Young's involvement. Complaint justified but no evidence questions provided to Alanna Koch's campaign, says Sask. Party decision Members of Sask. premier's staff recuse themselves from investigating leadership debate complaint Premier's office emailed information to Alanna Koch campaign about topic just before debate Moe and his first cabinet are expected to be sworn in this week. He said he hopes to have his staffing decisions complete by next week. About the Author Adam Hunter Journalist Adam Hunter is the provincial affairs reporter at CBC Saskatchewan, based in Regina. He has been with CBC for 13 years. He hosts the CBC podcast On the Ledge. Follow him on Twitter @AHiddyCBC. Contact him: adam.hunter@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Scott Moe and his new cabinet to be sworn in this week Opinion Brad Wall's shoes 'impossible' to fill for newly-minted Scott Moe 'I will fight for this province': Scott Moe to replace Brad Wall as Sask. premier after tight race Scott Moe to maintain the status quo — and that's what Sask. Party voters want Next steps for Alanna Koch unclear after coming in 2nd in Sask. Party leadership race Complaint justified but no evidence questions provided to Alanna Koch's campaign, says Sask. Party decision Members of Sask. premier's staff recuse themselves from investigating leadership debate complaint Premier's office emailed information to Alanna Koch campaign about topic just before debate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now