Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Budget watchdog details millions in potential GST revenues on carbon pricing A new report from Parliament's budget watchdog says carbon pricing in four provinces could net the federal government more than $500 million over two years in GST revenues. Social Sharing Federal plan calls for a price on carbon pollution of $10 per tonne in 2018 The Canadian Press · Posted: Dec 12, 2017 12:46 PM ET | Last Updated: December 12, 2017 The Liberals are expected to introduce legislation next year to allow the federal government to impose a carbon price on provinces that don't meet the federal standard on their own. (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press) A new report from Parliament's budget watchdog says carbon pricing in four provinces could net the federal government more than $500 million over two years in GST revenues. The report by the parliamentary budget officer, out Tuesday, says GST revenues from Alberta, B.C., Ontario and Quebec could total between $236 million and $267 million by the end of the current fiscal year next April, and between $265 million and $313 million in the next fiscal year. Jean-Denis Frechette's report says the calculations will help Canadians understand the impact of a national carbon pricing policy on revenue from the goods and services tax. The Liberals are expected to introduce legislation next year to allow the federal government to impose a carbon price on provinces that don't meet the federal standard on their own. Federal bills on carbon pricing, coal, clean fuels expected in 2018 The federal plan calls for a price on carbon pollution of $10 per tonne in 2018, increasing by $10 every year to $50 per tonne in 2022. The Liberals have said any revenues generated from the system would stay in the province or territory where they are generated — a stance provinces have questioned, since the federal government earns money through the five per cent tax charged in the final cost of a good or service. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Federal bills on carbon pricing, coal, clean fuels expected in 2018 No carbon tax in Sask. government climate change plan As Trump tries to revive coal industry, Canada pushes for a phase-out at UN climate meeting 'If we say no, we get Trudeau': Manitoba environment minister backs carbon tax Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now