Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Calgary Calgary ready for legalized weed, says Nenshi as premiers consider asking for an extension Manitoba's premier may not be ready for legal marijuana but Calgary's mayor says his city is. Social Sharing 'We can make it work, but it is a tight timeline,' mayor says of city's preparations for July 2018 target date CBC News · Posted: Jul 19, 2017 9:00 AM MT | Last Updated: July 19, 2017 Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi says his city will be prepared for legalized marijuana but remains "at the whim" of the provincial and federal governments. (Left photo, Julie Debeljak/CBC, right photo, Ron Ward/Canadian Press) Manitoba's premier may not be ready for legal marijuana but Calgary's mayor says his city is. "We'll continue to make sure our bylaws are ready to go," Mayor Naheed Nenshi told CBC News. "We can make it work, but it is a tight timeline." His comments come as provincial and territorial leaders gather in Edmonton for Council of the Federation meetings, where Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister plans to push his counterparts to demand the federal government delay legalization by a year. Brian Pallister pushes premiers to delay legalization of pot by 1 year Premiers set to tackle clogged courts and legal cannabis Pallister has said many questions remain to be answered before such a "historic change" is adopted. "I think that there are too many unaddressed issues that need to be paid attention to for us to hurry into something like this, [given] the magnitude of this," he said. Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said his province would not object to an extension, noting there are challenges in creating standardized rules around labelling, road safety and age of access across the country in time. The federal government brought forward legislation to legalize cannabis in the spring and has asserted it plans to pass it into law by July 2018. It will be left up to provinces to administer systems for selling marijuana and to set minimum ages for buying it. Nenshi said he expects Calgary will have its own municipal rules in place by this time next year, but the city remains at "at the whim of the federal and provincial governments" on the marijuana file. "All of the pieces have to fall together," he said. "And those can't happen until the federal and provincial laws are in place." Nenshi expects pot industry to mirror beer industry after legalization comes into effect Medical marijuana counselling businesses to be regulated under Calgary's land use bylaw CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Federal-provincial showdown looms over legal pot deadline Buzz kill? Brian Pallister pushes premiers to delay legalization of pot by 1 year Calgary prepares for future with legalized marijuana Medical marijuana counselling businesses to be regulated under Calgary's land use bylaw Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now