Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Cannabis black market will thrive without an inclusive legal industry, MPs hear MPs studying the government's legal cannabis legislation were urged Thursday to consider "amnesty provisions" for individuals with prior cannabis offences to allow them access to the legal market. Social Sharing House of Commons health committee holds Day 4 of hearings on legal marijuana legislation Brennan MacDonald · CBC · Posted: Sep 14, 2017 8:45 AM ET | Last Updated: September 14, 2017 MPs studying the government's legal cannabis legislation heard that excluding anyone convicted of producing, trafficking or possessing cannabis in the last decade from getting a permit to to sell or produce the drug would ensure the survival of the illegal market. (Joe Mahoney/Canadian Press) comments MPs studying the government's legal cannabis legislation were urged Thursday to consider "amnesty provisions" for individuals with prior cannabis offences to allow access to the legal market. "Many of these individuals would embrace the opportunity to operate legally and they would comply with regulations," Trina Fraser told the House of Commons health committee. Fraser is a partner in the law firm Brazeau Seller LLP.  "If we fail to create an inclusive cannabis industry the black market will thrive and if it thrives cannabis will continue to be easily accessible to minors. The public health and safety objective of restricting access to unregulated cannabis products will be compromised and we will continue to place an unnecessary burden on the criminal justice system," said Fraser.  Trina Fraser, partner at law firm Brazeau Seller LLP, tells the House of Commons health committee that 'amnesty provisions' are needed for those with prior cannabis-related criminal offences to allow access to the legal market framework. (CBC) In its current form, Bill C-45 would allow the minister to refuse the granting of a licence or permit should an applicant have contravened the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act in the past 10 years. Fraser said that provision excludes anyone who has been convicted of producing, trafficking or possessing cannabis in the last decade. She said yet-to-be established regulations could further broaden grounds for exclusion. "The stated objectives of the bill include the reduction of the illicit market, and it attempts to do so by imposing criminal sanctions on those operating outside the legal framework, but this in and of itself will not work. We know this because it hasn't worked. Those who are excluded will continue to operate outside of the law," Fraser told the committee. Amnesty provisions in the U.S. Fraser suggested MPs look to the U.S. for direction on the matter. In Washington, a state that legalized recreational marijuana in 2012, a prior criminal conviction doesn't necessarily disqualify an applicant. Applicants who have two prior misdemeanour convictions for possession of marijuana within the previous three years don't have those offences counted against them in the decision to award a licence. Applicants, however, must report these offences when applying.  In Washington, a state that legalized recreational marijuana in 2012, a prior criminal conviction doesn't necessarily disqualify an applicant. (Mike Hutchings/Reuters) "What we wanted to do was take those people that had been involved in the business to some degree in the past or they had had a marijuana offence and wanted to get into the system in a regulated, in-the-light situation," said Brian Smith, spokesperson for the Washington State Liquor and Cannabis Board. Smith said Washington conducts a criminal background check on everyone who applies, and the board utilizes a discretionary point system to evaluate how past offences count against an applicant's eligibility. Colorado, which also legalized recreational cannabis in 2012, does not have any amnesty provisions. However, the state's former pot czar Andrew Freedman said there is a considerable criminal justice component arguing the lack of such provisions is wrong. Although Fraser argued Canada needs a more nuanced approach to the issue of licensing, she did outline instances where an applicant could be excluded, including for offences involving young persons, guns, violence or the trafficking of controlled substances other than cannabis. She also said applicants with established connections to organized crime could be excluded. Call for border crossing agreement with U.S. Thursday afternoon, NDP health critic Don Davies called on the Liberals to begin talks with the U.S. for an agreement ensuring free travel over the border following the legalization of recreational cannabis next summer. "No Canadian should be turned away from the border for participating in activities which are legal in this country," Davies said in a statement. In recent years, reports have surfaced of Canadian citizens being denied entry to the U.S. for simply admitting to consuming marijuana in the past. "Witnesses testifying on this bill have been unanimous that without an agreement with the U.S., Canadians will be put in a terrible position of having to either lie to border officials or be denied entry," said Davies. "The negative consequences of this will span from ruining family vacations to a serious barrier for trade and business over the border." Week of hearings MPs on the House of Commons health committee are also hearing from health-care officials and Indigenous leaders as the committee conducts Day 4 of hearings on the government's cannabis legislation. MPs urged to push forward with legal pot despite calls to slow down 'Impossible': Senior police officials tell MPs they won't be ready for legal cannabis The committee is holding five full days of hearings this week. On Wednesday, MPs were urged by a senior public health representative to push forward with legal cannabis despite calls to slow down. "You have also heard calls that we are not ready for legalization. Unfortunately, we don't have the luxury of time as Canadians are already consuming cannabis at record levels," Ian Culbert, executive director of the Canadian Public Health Association, told the House of Commons health committee. Culbert's message came one day after senior police representatives told the committee that they will not be ready to enforce new laws by next summer and are asking the government for more time, echoing a message from several provinces in recent months. Despite the concerns, Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale said the government was sticking to its timetable to legalize cannabis by July 1, 2018. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories MPs urged to push forward with legal cannabis despite calls to slow down 'Impossible': Senior police officials tell MPs they won't be ready for legal cannabis As legalization approaches, Kahnawake prepares to make its own cannabis rules External Links Washington state administrative code on marijuana licenses Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now