Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Cape Breton remains short on psychiatrists after 2 hires back out Two psychiatrists who had committed to filling vacancies in Cape Breton will not be relocating to the area after all. Social Sharing Pair was among 13 new physician hires in the region announced in August Holly Conners · CBC News · Posted: Sep 26, 2017 4:10 PM AT | Last Updated: September 26, 2017 Two psychiatrists who had committed to filling vacancies in Cape Breton will not be relocating to the area after all. Two psychiatrists who had committed to filling vacancies in Cape Breton will not be relocating to the area after all. The pair was among 13 new physician hires in the region — including family doctors and specialists — announced in August by the Nova Scotia Health Authority. "We did learn recently that two psychiatrists who had originally planned to relocate here will not be coming," health authority spokesperson Greg Boone confirmed Tuesday. Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area 'Hemorrhaging' of doctors from Cape Breton must stop, physicians warn One of the psychiatrists informed the health authority of the decision in August, and the other did so this month. "Discussions between the health authority and health-care providers, including physician candidates, are private and confidential," said Boone. "However, in this case, we understand their decisions on relocation were personal." The psychiatrists were recruited by a provincial recruitment team that includes co-ordinators on the ground in each of the health authority's four management zones, and that is supported by a group of physicians working in Cape Breton. There are currently three vacancies for psychiatrists in Cape Breton, Boone said. Hopes 'dashed again' A recent report prepared by Doctors Nova Scotia following consultations with physicians across the province outlines a number of concerns voiced by psychiatrists currently working in Cape Breton. It says the region can no longer effectively recruit new psychiatrists due to issues around workload, a lack of resources, the absence of local decision-making and remuneration. "They just don't have enough psychiatrists there to be able to appropriately meet the needs of Cape Breton," said Tim Holland, president-elect of Doctors Nova Scotia. Dr. Craig Stone is an anesthesiologist in Sydney and the president of the Cape Breton Medical Staff Association. (Holly Conners/CBC) Upon learning that the two new hires have backed out, Dr. Craig Stone, a staff anesthesiologist at the Cape Breton Regional Hospital, said he was intensely disappointed. "You know, we get our hopes built up, and then we get them dashed again," said Stone, who is also president of the Cape Breton Medical Staff Association. "If something comes out of this, it would be that I wish that announcements like this would be made once the people are on the ground and working." That is how the health authority will proceed going forward, said Boone, adding that recruitment for psychiatry and other positions is ongoing. As health debate rages, McNeil government budget offers up tiny increases 'It's hard to say we've done a good job' preventing suicides, minister admits About the Author Holly Conners Reporter Holly Conners is a reporter and current affairs producer who has been with CBC Cape Breton since 1998. Contact her at holly.conners@cbc.ca. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area As health debate rages, McNeil government budget offers up tiny increases 'Hemorrhaging' of doctors from Cape Breton must stop, physicians warn Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now