Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI Charlottetown vies for $10M Smart Cities prize The City of Charlottetown is competing for a big prize in order to support the mental health of its youth. Social Sharing Smart Cities Challenge has a $10M prize Kevin Yarr · CBC News · Posted: Apr 10, 2018 9:02 AM AT | Last Updated: April 10, 2018 Technology could be used to connect people to programming or set up virtual support groups, says Ramona Doyle. (Shutterstock) The City of Charlottetown is competing for a big prize in order to support the mental health of its youth. The city is submitting an entry into the Smart Cities Challenge, a competition that encourages communities to improve lives through technology. The first step is for the city to identify a problem they would like to tackle. Ramona Doyle, Charlottetown's sustainability officer, said technology could help with youth mental health in a variety of ways. The city is still narrowing down how it might approach the challenge, says Ramona Doyle. (Jessica Doria-Brown/CBC) "You could use technology in a way to connect people better to programming," said Doyle. "It could be a way to use virtual support groups for youth, it could be data collection." The prize is $10 million. If Charlottetown is chosen as a finalist, it will receive $250,000 to further develop the proposal. More P.E.I. news Hospital has already made changes after suicide, inquest told Professor questions omission of carbon pricing from P.E.I. budget CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now