Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Cities fight for legal marijuana revenue as Ottawa reveals minimum $1 per gram tax Canadian cities have told Finance Minister Bill Morneau they need money for startup costs to be ready for legalization next summer — as well as a permanent share of marijuana tax revenues. Social Sharing Policing new cannabis rules called 'massive and costly undertaking' Evan Dyer · CBC News · Posted: Nov 10, 2017 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 10, 2017 The organization that represents Canadian cities is asking the federal government to commit to stable funding to help municipalities deal with the costs from the legalization of marijuana. (David Horemans/CBC) comments The federal government's plan to legalize marijuana has already generated a spat with the provinces over how potentially lucrative tax revenue will be divided. Now a new player has entered the fray: Canada's cities are demanding they be given a share of the revenue pie to help cover costs associated with legalization. In a letter from the Federation of Canadian Municipalities to Finance Minister Bill Morneau, Canada's cities say they also want the federal government to cover start-up costs of transitioning to a new regime. Federal marijuana tax plan 'completely unacceptable,' says Alberta's finance minister Provincial rules for legal pot could bring new ways to run afoul of the law "Municipalities cover almost 60 per cent of Canada's policing costs," FCM president Jenny Gerbasi wrote in the letter dated Nov. 2. "Preparing the bulk of Canada's police forces to enforce new cannabis rules — with appropriate training, systems and resources — is a massive and costly undertaking." Gerbasi says the $161 million already earmarked by the federal government for training is a start, but it remains unclear how much of this commitment may flow to municipalities for local training needs. Furthermore, training is only one component of the start-up challenge local governments now face." Jenny Gerbasi, Winnipeg's deputy mayor, is serving as president of the Federation of Canadian Municipalities. She wrote a letter to Finance Minister Bill Morneau to ask that cities receive a share of revenues from cannabis taxation. (CBC News ) The federation said cities are on board with the Trudeau government's objectives and have been pre-emptively altering bylaws as they try to prepare for the changes on many fronts, despite a paucity of information. Gerbasi, who is also deputy mayor of Winnipeg, said some cities will have to make changes to as many as 17 different departments, from policing to human resources to transit. Tax windfall up for grabs Liberal MP Bill Blair, former Toronto police chief and the government's point man on legalizing marijuana, made public the federal tax proposal for legal pot Friday, kicking off a period of public consultations that ends Dec. 7. That, Blair said, gives the government just enough time to solicit comments on the proposal so that federal, provincial and territorial finance ministers can discuss it when they meet in Ottawa Dec. 10-11. The plan would add an excise tax of $1 per gram of marijuana or 10 per cent of the final retail price, whichever is higher, with the revenues to be divided equally between Ottawa and the provinces and territories. The final price, including provincial and federal sales taxes, would vary by jurisdiction, since the combined total is in some provinces is higher than in others. On an $8 gram of pot sold in Ontario, for instance, the final purchase price would be $10.17, with a $1 excise tax and $1.17 HST. In New Brunswick, it would be $10.35. Alberta, which has no provincial sales taxes, could see the cheapest pot in the country at just $9.45 total for an $8 gram of weed. Blair on cities and legal pot Politics News3 years ago 1:26PS Justice Bill Blair is asked about help for cities dealing with legal pot sales 1:26 "I'm very comfortable that the level of taxation … achieves our goals of keeping the price sufficiently low to be competitive with an illicit market, while at the same time not creating an incentive for the consumption and purchase of this drug," said Blair. Blair gave $1 billion a year as a very rough estimate of how much Canada and provinces stand to raise from the plan, although that number is at the high end of the scale, he warned, since so much depends on just how many people will end up buying marijuana once it becomes legal. Provinces grumbling  Some provincial governments have already voiced their displeasure with the 50-50 formula, arguing they should see a larger share. The addition of municipalities to the debate could further complicate things, but municipalities make the case that many of the costs associated with legalization will accrue to them. Manitoba Premier warns Ottawa to 'stay the heck out' of pot taxing debate Police across Canada in limbo over who will pay for roadside drug testing Canada's largest grower 'comfortable' with federal government's pot tax plan "Our cities are where cannabis will be used and sold," Gerbasi told CBC News. "So local governments are responsible for administering and enforcing where cannabis can be sold, ensuring private retail stores are safe to visit and work in, enforcing impaired driving and public nuisance rules, policing, it goes on and on. We're on the front lines of this." Gerbasi said cities need money to come "from somewhere to cover these costs." "We're the ones who are facing this, and so we need to part of this discussion prior to everything being decided and rolled out and shown to us." Gerbasi said the federal government has shown itself open to talking with municipalities but the issue remains unresolved. She said because so many details of the roll-out remain unknown it is very difficult for municipalities to estimate exactly how much the shift to legalization will cost. For now, the federation has published a primer to help its member municipalities prepare where they can. Feds say they're listening Chloé Luciani-Girouard, Morneau's press secretary, said finance officials met Wednesday with a delegation from the FCM to discuss the issues. "We are working with partners, including municipalities, to make sure our approach to legalizing, regulating and taxing cannabis achieves our goals of keeping it out of the hands of kids and profits out of the hands of criminals," Luciani-Girouard said. Gerbasi said the FCM is encouraged that it's at least being heard, but wants more concrete commitments around money. In her letter to Morneau, she pointed out that legalization in the U.S. has always been accompanied by money for cities. "There is ample precedent here," she wrote. "All eight U.S. states that have legalized recreational cannabis have adopted predictable funding allocations for their local governments." The federal government is expected this morning to announce public consultations over its proposed excise tax. The next high-level discussion of how the tax revenues will be divided will probably occur on Dec. 10 when federal and provincial finance ministers meet. Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content About the Author Evan Dyer Senior Reporter Evan Dyer has been a journalist with CBC for 18 years, after an early career as a freelancer in Argentina. He works in the Parliamentary Bureau and can be reached at evan.dyer@cbc.ca. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Federal marijuana tax plan 'completely unacceptable,' says Alberta's finance minister Provincial rules for legal pot could bring new ways to run afoul of the law Consider workplace safety in legalized marijuana rules, groups urge Manitoba Premier warns Ottawa to 'stay the heck out' of pot taxing debate Canada's largest grower 'comfortable' with federal government's pot tax plan Can you smoke in your car or bring pot to work? 10 burning questions about Ontario's pot plan Ottawa, Kingston among 14 cities getting pot shops Toronto councillors back Ontario's marijuana plan in face of criticism from pot activists External Links Cannabis legalization primer: how municipalities can get ready (FCM) Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now