Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Cities grapple with bylaw and regulation changes as they race to make legal pot deadline Now that the federal government has released more details on its legislation to legalize pot, some cities have already taken steps to make sure they are ready for next July's deadline. Social Sharing 'It's a challenge for all of our members,' the Federation of Canadian Municipalities says Susan Lunn · CBC News · Posted: Nov 22, 2017 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 22, 2017 Winnipeg chief planner Braden Smith says his city is looking at everything from where retail pot stores will be allowed to locate to how large a neon cannabis leaf can be in a retail-store window. (David Horemans/CBC) comments While the federal government gives more details on its proposed regulations for legal pot, some Canadian cities are already taking steps to make sure they are ready for next July's deadline. Before pot can be sold and consumed across the country, cities need to tackle bylaws that regulate everything from zoning to workplace health and safety to where people can and can't consume the drug. Proposed pot regulations open door to craft growers, licensing non-violent offenders The city of Edmonton, for example, has amended a zoning bylaw to clearly define what it means to be a pot retail store in the city. "We've defined them as a unique creature not unlike liquor stores, so existing paraphernalia shops can't simply transition into [one], or convenience stores can't just decide to add a cannabis component to their business," said Colton Kirsop, a senior planner with the City of Edmonton.   'A tight timeline' Edmonton is also in the middle of public consultations on where those new retail shops should be located in relation to parks, playgrounds and other areas. Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi told CBC News that he expects his city's amended bylaws will be in place by the time pot is made legal in July next year. "We can make it work, but it is a tight timeline," he said.  Calgary ready for legalized weed, says Nenshi as premiers consider asking for an extension Cannabis plan reaction: Hopeful retailers prepare for business as city ponders regulations Kitchener Mayor Berry Vrbanovic said his municipality is looking at where cannibis stores will and should be located, and Winnipeg is doing the same.  Winnipeg chief planner Braden Smith said the city is working on a cannabis retail plan that should determine where cannabis shops can exist, how far they have to be from schools and possibly even how large a neon cannabis leaf can be in a retail-store window. Regulating pot smoking Back in Edmonton, there's a working group of 27 staff, looking at a range of city departments that will be affected, from land-use planning to human resources. Kirsop said legalizing marijuana "really cuts across pretty much every city department in some form or another." Local governments are on the front lines.... We are where cannabis will be used, and sold, and we are where the new rules will be administered and enforced.-  Jenny Gerbasi, FCM president Edmonton is also in the middle of public consultations on where people will be allowed to consume pot. "We're wondering do we just apply the same models that we got for other regulated substances like cigarettes and alcohol. Or do we end up with a customized outcome that borrows a little from each of those and has some of its own unique features?" Kirsop said. The Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) has put together a primer to help cities get ready for cannabis legalization. The six-page document urges municipalities to "begin their internal process immediately to ensure that regulations, laws, and bylaws are in place by the time the federal cannabis legislation comes into force." A challenge for small cities The primer recommends municipalities seek legal advice, put together working groups and begin public consultations right away. "Local governments are on the front lines of implementing this. We are where cannabis will be used, and sold, and we are where the new rules will be administered and enforced," said Jenny Gerbasi, FCM president and deputy mayor in Winnipeg. Jenny Gerbasi says smaller communities aren't as accustomed to working on their zoning bylaws as frequently as a big city. (CBC News) FCM has its own internal working group looking at this issue and putting together a more detailed guidebook for municipalities to be released early in the new year.  "We are doing everything we can to assist cities of all sizes. It's a challenge for all of our members," Gerbasi said, admitting it will be tougher on smaller municipalities to get ready in time. "I think it's a challenge. They just have less staff, and maybe they aren't as accustomed to working on their zoning bylaws as frequently as a big city," Kirsop said, noting that he has already received calls for advice from three small municipalities around Edmonton. Outstanding issues For all the work Edmonton has done already, Kirsop said much remains to be addressed there. "We've got human resources considerations in terms of impairment in the workplace," he said. Saint John to consider bylaw change to allow marijuana production The Edmonton Fire Department also has an issue it wants to address through a public awareness campaign before legal pot is available: the dangers of extracting cannabis oil at home. "In terms of extracting oils from the cannabis plant, there's some methods that are more dangerous than others, and I think they want to get their head around that, and get information out there," Kirsop said. About the Author Susan Lunn Susan Lunn has been covering politics in Ottawa since 2002. She has a special interest in health and the environment. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Calgary ready for legalized weed, says Nenshi as premiers consider asking for an extension Cannabis plan reaction: Hopeful retailers prepare for business as city ponders regulations Saint John to consider bylaw change to allow marijuana production Proposed pot regulations open door to craft growers, licensing non-violent offenders Cities fight for legal marijuana revenue as Ottawa reveals minimum $1 per gram tax Provincial rules for legal pot could bring new ways to run afoul of the law Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now