Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon City of Saskatoon takes hands off approach to medical marijuana dispensaries Saskatoon's city council is standing by a committee decision not to allow medical marijuana dispensaries, as it receives a letter from the owner of the Saskatchewan Compassion Club. Social Sharing Saskatchewan Compassion Club’s Mark Hauk says the city should reconsider dispensaries CBC News · Posted: Feb 29, 2016 8:45 PM CT | Last Updated: March 1, 2016 Compassion club owner Mark Hauk submitted a letter to city council asking that it reconsider a committee's decision on marijuana dispensary regulations. (Devin Heroux/CBC News) comments Saskatoon's city council is standing by a committee decision not to allow medical marijuana dispensaries, despite receiving a cautionary letter from the owner of the Saskatchewan Compassion Club. On Feb. 8, the Standing Policy Committee on Planning, Development and Community Services voted against issuing business licences to marijuana dispensaries. Administration argued that medical marijuana falls under federal jurisdiction, and anyone involved with it must get a federal licence. It also pointed to the city's own bylaw's which state that before a business licence can ge granted, the applicant must have the necessary federal and provincial approvals.  Saskatoon medical marijuana dispensary owner outraged over 'gutless' police raid City of Saskatoon advises against regulating marijuana dispensary Today, council  received a letter from Saskatchewan Compassion Club owner Mark Hauk in response to the administration's recommendations on dispensaries. Hauk had planned to appear in person but was unable to "due to some unfortunate circumstances," the letter states. In the letter, Hauk pointed to a recent Federal Court ruling which struck down federal regulations restricting the rights of medical marijuana patients to grow their own cannabis. The decision also gave the Liberal government six months to come up with new rules. Ban on medical marijuana patients growing own pot struck down by Federal Court Hauk said the city should reconsider because the federal regulations have "yet again been found unconstitutional" and in six months "will fully be 'no force and effect' in this country." However, council accepted the administration's report.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Saskatoon councillors vote against business licences for marijuana dispensaries Saskatoon City Council to discuss marijuana dispensary regulations City of Saskatoon advises against regulating marijuana dispensary Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now