Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Committee recommends province look at adding seats to N.S. legislature Nova Scotia could have more MLAs than ever in the House if the recommendations set out Thursday in a special committee report are adopted and agreed to by the 51 MLAs who currently make up the legislature. Social Sharing Acadian group that challenged electoral map calls report issued Thursday a 'victory' Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Jan 11, 2018 3:26 PM AT | Last Updated: January 11, 2018 Doug Keefe, left, and Kenneth Deveau, right, are two members of the Independent Commission on Effective Electoral Representation. The panel's third member was injured a fall recently and was unable to present the group's findings. (Jean Laroche/CBC) A committee named in response to a court challenge by an Acadian lobby group unhappy with the way Nova Scotia's last electoral map was created is suggesting there be more MLAs in the legislature. In a report issued Thursday, the three-member panel also said the basis for discussion about a new electoral map should stem from the 2002 boundaries that included three protected Acadian seats and a protected African-Nova Scotian seat. Although the panel did not call for the reinstatement of those protected ridings, Ghislain Boudreau, president of the Fédération acadienne de la Nouvelle-Écosse, called the recommendations a victory for the province's Acadian population. Ghislain Boudreau is president of the Fédération acadienne de la Nouvelle-Écosse. (Jean Laroche/CBC) "It's definitely a win for the Acadian community," he told reporters immediately following a news conference by the Independent Commission on Effective Electoral Representation. The McNeil government created the panel last April in response to a court battle with the Acadian federation after the Court of Appeal ruled that the process to create the current electoral map was unconstitutional. The NDP government of the day had thrown out the first map created by an independent commission, and ordered new boundaries. The panel said work on a new electoral map should be left to an independent boundaries commission and be guided by Thursday's report. Geoff MacLellan, Liberal House leader, welcomed the panel's recommendations and vowed to keep partisan considerations out of the process to redraw the election map, even if it means increasing the number of MLAs at Province House. "We're absolutely not controlling or mandating, dictating any number of MLAs," he told reporters moments after the panel left the stage following the presentation of its report. "If the status quo of 51 is where the commission lands, then so be it. We're not putting any parameters on the commission and we're not telling them how to do their job." MLAs at Province House last February. (Robert Short/CBC) That reassurance was greeted with cautious optimism by PC House leader Chris d'Entremont who represents Argyle-Barrington, a riding that expanded the last time the map was redrafted. "I've been down the road before where things went sideways as they did in 2012, so I'm hoping that we can continue to work together on this one and maybe find a way to make it equal amongst the three parties that sit in this House of Assembly," he said. For his part, NDP Leader Gary Burrill would have liked to see the process of redrawing the map start a year ago rather than wait for the panel recommendations. "We could have had this matter in the bank by now," he said. Other recommendations include enshrining in law the principles that would guide the process of redrawing the electoral map, and setting a plus or minus 25 percent variation as the standard population size for ridings but allow for bigger variations under "exceptional circumstances."  Another recommendation is for the committee charged with the work of redesigning the map to offer at least two or more maps for consideration during deliberations. About the Author Jean Laroche Reporter Jean Laroche has been a CBC reporter for 32 years. He's been covering Nova Scotia politics since 1995 and has been at Province House longer than any sitting member. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Nova Scotia electoral map violates charter, says province's highest court Acadian group vows more court action if province won't change electoral map Public to be consulted — again — on minority electoral representation Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now