Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Complaint justified but no evidence questions provided to Alanna Koch's campaign, says Sask. Party decision The Saskatchewan Party has found a complaint by leadership hopefuls justified but says there is no evidence the premier’s chief of operations Kathy Young provided questions to Alanna Koch, her campaign manager or anyone else prior to Weyburn debate. Social Sharing Party says premier’s chief of operations made 'various' inquiries on topics raised in Weyburn debate Adam Hunter · CBC News · Posted: Dec 19, 2017 10:57 AM CT | Last Updated: December 19, 2017 Saskatchewan Party leadership candidate Alanna Koch denied allegations that she received any debate questions, a Sask. Party investigation confirmed that. (Brandon Harder/CBC) comments The Saskatchewan Party has found a complaint by leadership hopefuls justified but says there is no evidence the premier's chief of operations Kathy Young provided questions to Alanna Koch, her campaign manager or anyone else prior to the Weyburn debate. Three leadership hopefuls — Scott Moe, Gord Wyant and Tina Beaudry-Mellor — signed a letter of complaint on Dec. 8, more than a week after the debate in Weyburn. 3 Sask. Party leadership candidates raise concerns debate questions may have been leaked to opponent The party's Leadership Election Organizing Committee had been looking into the complaint. "The LEOC (also referenced as "We") finds no direct evidence or proof of Ms. Kathy Young, or anyone else, having supplied the Weyburn Debate questions to anyone, including Ms. Alanna Koch or her campaign manager, Mr. Kelly Gallagher, prior to the Weyburn Debate," said the party statement.  "All of the evidence supplied to us by those in support of the complaint was circumstantial." Koch denied the "absolutely ridiculous accusation" in a news release days after the complaint was filed. Alanna Koch denies 'absolutely ridiculous accusation' she received debate questions ahead of time Young made inquiries on debate topics Shortly after the complaint was launched, CBC News learned an email chain involving the premier's chief of operations and communications Kathy Young sparked the complaint about an alleged leak of information. On Nov. 29, Young sent a question to the minister of health's chief of staff, looking for information about nurse practitioners. "Nurse Practitioners – we increased their scope, right? Using them in areas of the prov to fill-in for doctors where possible, etc?" Young wrote in the email. The following night, a question about nurse practitioners was posed to the candidates at the Saskatchewan Party leadership debate in Weyburn. "There were however specific inquiries by Ms. Young of the various Ministerial office staff on topics which were the subject of the Weyburn Debate," the LEOC said of Young's involvement. "We can certainly see this as being a point of concern for many of the leadership candidates," the party said. When asked last week if she had the debate questions, Young told CBC,"I can tell you that at no time were any debate questions shared with any leadership campaign prior to any of the debates." Last Wednesday, five days after the complaint was launched, two members of LEOC recused themselves from any discussion on the investigation because they work with Young in the premier's office. Premier's office emailed information to Alanna Koch campaign about topic just before debate Help from premier's office for Sask. Party candidate creates impression of 'favouritism': political expert Members of Sask. premier's staff recuse themselves from investigating leadership debate complaint Complaint justified The party's election committee said in light of the issues found in the investigation it will make recommendations to the party's provincial council regarding future leadership races. "We find the signatories to the complaint to be justified in being concerned with the circumstances surrounding the Weyburn Debate. We find their complaint to be bona fide and raised without any malice or ill-will," the committee said in a statement. The party said it considers the matter closed and will not be commenting further. About the Author Adam Hunter Journalist Adam Hunter is the provincial affairs reporter at CBC Saskatchewan, based in Regina. He has been with CBC for 13 years. He hosts the CBC podcast On the Ledge. Follow him on Twitter @AHiddyCBC. Contact him: adam.hunter@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Help from premier's office for Sask. Party candidate creates impression of 'favouritism': political expert Members of Sask. premier's staff recuse themselves from investigating leadership debate complaint Premier's office emailed information to Alanna Koch campaign about topic just before debate Alanna Koch denies 'absolutely ridiculous accusation' she received debate questions ahead of time 3 Sask. Party leadership candidates raise concerns debate questions may have been leaked to opponent Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now