Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Ottawa Consideration of pot pardons overdue, says Ottawa activist An Ottawa-based marijuana activist says the fact the federal government is weighing pardoning marijuana-related convictions once pot is legalized comes too late. Social Sharing Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says government considering 'implications' of pardons Matthew Kupfer · CBC News · Posted: Jan 13, 2018 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 13, 2018 As Canada moves to legalize cannabis, the Liberal government is looking at ways to deal with people who have criminal records for possessing the drug. (Photo courtesy of Allan Ziolkowski) As the federal government weighs the implications of granting pardons for marijuana-related crimes, an Ottawa-based activist says the idea is long overdue. John Akpata, a five-time candidate for the Marijuana Party of Canada, said he is heartened by Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale's comments on possibly providing pardons, or record suspensions. "They could have solved this problem years ago. The attorney general could have dealt with it, the prime minister could have dealt with it, but they're lukewarm and wishy-washy," Akpata said in an interview with Adrian Harewood on CBC Ottawa News at Six.   Trudeau says pot purchasers are funding gangs, organized crime and must be charged Akpata said the effects of a criminal record can be devastating and long-lasting — including barring people from government jobs and complicating travel — and have affected almost half a million Canadians. "People have had their lives completely ruined when you have a criminal record, you can't get a mortgage. So how are these people supposed to live?"? Marijuana activist on importance of pot pardons Ottawa3 years ago 0:41Marijuana Party of Canada activist John Akpata discusses why pardons for people with marijuana-related convictions is important. 0:41 Which offences to pardon? Goodale said the existing laws remain in effect and any changes to criminal laws would happen after marijuana is legalized. That's expected to happen in July of this year. Ottawa criminal defence lawyer Anne Marie McElroy said Crown prosecutors are still laying charges and getting convictions on marijuana-related offences — including a handful related to dispensaries in Ottawa. "It has seemed kind of ironic the way the legalization was announced and these kind of offences continue to be prosecuted," she said, adding prosecutors have been resorting to non-criminal consequences for simple possession. Pot legalization coming, so stop possession arrests, say some Ottawa pot shops put 'on notice' after Ontario unveils marijuana plan McElroy cautions that not everyone with a pot conviction may be getting their record cleared if pardons line up with proposed restrictions in the government's cannabis bill, such as who can sell to whom. "They're not going to be pardoning all types of marijuana offences. They may restrict [pardons] to the least serious and I would see that as the simple possession of a small amount for personal use," she said. McElroy said it's not clear how the application process and fees would be handled for the pardons. Apology in order, activist says Akpata said the effects of current marijuana laws have been so widespread that the government should consider issuing an official apology. "If the prime minister can apologize to the homosexual community for the way that homosexuals were excluded from participating in society and their rights were violated, the same has to happen for Canadian citizens [with marijuana convictions]," he said. McElroy also said there is an analogy to the decriminalization of homosexual acts, though marijuana users don't represent the same kind of easily definable group. However, she said pot laws have contributed to trapping some people from marginalized communities in the criminal justice system. "It would be interesting if the government, in providing terms redress through pardons, would turn their minds how certain communities have been disproportionately impacted by the laws," she said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trudeau says pot purchasers are funding gangs, organized crime and must be charged Dispensary owner says she and others should be pardoned once pot is legal Ottawa pot shops put 'on notice' after Ontario unveils marijuana plan Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now