Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Consider workplace safety in legalized marijuana rules, groups urge New rules for legalized marijuana need to consider the impact on workplaces and clarify the rights of both employers and employees, say some business groups. Social Sharing Businesses asking what their rights and responsibilities are with employees who are high Gemma Karstens-Smith · The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 05, 2017 8:36 PM PT | Last Updated: November 6, 2017 As marijuana legalization looms in Canada, large and small companies are asking for guidance from the provincial and federal governments on how they should balance employee privacy with safety in the workplace. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) New rules for legalized marijuana need to consider the impact on workplaces and clarify the rights of both employers and employees, say some business groups. Ottawa has set July 1 as the deadline for regulations to be in place and many provinces and territories are still working to craft legislation, including British Columbia, where a public consultation on legal pot wrapped up this week. British Columbians offer feedback on legal cannabis Anita Huberman, CEO of the Surrey Board of Trade, said large and small companies need guidance from the provincial and federal governments on how they should balance employee privacy with safety in the workplace. "For any employer, what are their rights and responsibilities in the face of an employee who is under the influence of cannabis?" she said. "How is an employer supposed to be able to deal with that type of situation without compromising their business and their workplace?" Huberman said the board of trade wants to see the provincial Employment Standards Act amended to specifically address marijuana usage. Is medical marijuana acceptable in the workplace? The law does not include any provisions on marijuana, although WorkSafeBC regulations prohibit workers with any physical or mental impairments from doing work that could pose harm to themselves or anyone else. Impairment prohibited The rules also say employers cannot allow anyone at a workplace to stay if their ability to work is impaired by alcohol, a drug or any other substance that could put anyone in danger. Those rules apply to workplaces in B.C., but regulations for legalized marijuana should be standardized across the country, Huberman said. "In every province, in every territory, we want to make sure this is done right," she said, adding that creating the right rules may take more time than the federal government's timeline allows. As business groups express their concerns about looming legalization, unions have been quiet on the issue. Paul Finch, treasurer for the B.C. Government and Service Employees Union, said the group has submitted recommendations to the province on how and where recreational marijuana should be sold, but the union does not take a position on legalized marijuana in the workplace. Several other unions declined comment or did not respond to requests for comment. 'Increased safety risk' The B.C. Trucking Association, meanwhile, is asking for what it terms a "legalized framework" for random drug and alcohol testing. "We recognize that there is an increased safety risk due to the possibility of impairment and in order for the public safety risk to be reduced, we think it's imperative that employers be allowed to randomly drug test workers that are in safety-sensitive positions," said Louise Yako, the association's president and CEO. The issue of workplace drug and alcohol testing has already gone before Canadian courts, including Alberta's Court of Appeal, which ruled in September that the energy company Suncor could continue testing workers at its sites in the oilsands. While testing is allowed under some specific circumstances, the rules around random testing are not as clear as they should be, Yako said. "Given the change in the regulation affecting marijuana, we think that employers should have every tool available to them," she said. Why marijuana legalization could mean more workplace scrutiny for employees CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 20,000 ideas and counting: British Columbians offer feedback on legal cannabis Why marijuana legalization could mean more workplace scrutiny for employees Is medical marijuana acceptable in the workplace? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now