Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Court ruling bars Sask. gov't from funding non-Catholic students in Catholic schools Justice Donald Layh's far-reaching decision is poised to take effect in June 2018. Social Sharing Decision by Justice Donald Layh poised take effect in June 2018 CBC News · Posted: Apr 20, 2017 8:23 PM CT | Last Updated: April 21, 2017 A Saskatchewan judge has ruled that the provincial government must stop paying for non-Catholic students to attend Catholic schools in the province. (iStock) comments A Saskatchewan judge has ruled that the provincial government must stop paying for non-Catholic students to attend Catholic schools in the province. Justice Donald Layh's far-reaching decision was released publicly Thursday afternoon. It is set to take effect in June 2018, in recognition of its "significant repercussions," according to the ruling.    Layh wrote that funding "non-minority faith students" in Catholic schools violates both the Charter of Rights and "the state's duty of religious neutrality." The ruling stands to upend the provincial government's current practice of paying for any students who attend Catholic schools, regardless of students' religious affiliations.  In a written statement, the Saskatchewan Catholic School Boards Association said it was disappointed by the decision and is giving serious thought to an appeal. "This greatly affects students and parents in Christ the Teacher School Division in particular, and families throughout the province," wrote past president Tom Fortosky. "We'll take some time to go over the 230-page decision, consult with our lawyers and process what this means for the division, for Catholic education in Saskatchewan and for all of the families who choose Catholic education." 2005 lawsuit Layh's decision stems from a 2005 lawsuit filed by the Good Spirit School Division No. 204 (GSSD) against the Christ the Teacher Roman Catholic Separate School Division No. 212. At issue was the creation in 2003 of a Catholic school in the village of Theodore, Sask., and the subsequent attendance of provincially-funded non-Catholic students at that school.  The GSSD argued that the constitutional protection of Catholic schools does not include the right for those schools to receive government funding for non–Catholic students. Bob Leurer, one of three lawyers for the Good Spirit School Division, said Thursday evening that the board had only begun to pore over the ruling and was not prepared to comment at the time.  Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content Corrections A previous version of this story said that Bob Leurer is a lawyer representing the Catholic School Board. In fact, he represents the Good Spirit School Division. Apr 21, 2017 10:03 AM CT CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Catholic school boards grappling with funding shortfalls Education workers holding breath as budget day approaches: education rep Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now