Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Dartmouth Pain Clinic closing after losing both doctors The Dartmouth Pain Clinic is closing after both of its doctors leave at the end of the year. Social Sharing People suffering chronic pain now face two-year wait-list for appointment at Halifax Pain Clinic Jon Tattrie · CBC News · Posted: Nov 09, 2017 6:16 PM AT | Last Updated: November 9, 2017 The Halifax Pain Clinic will take over patients and the waiting list from Dartmouth. (Kayla Hounsell/CBC) comments The Dartmouth Pain Clinic is closing, forcing hundreds of people suffering from chronic pain to join the two-year waiting list to see a doctor at the Halifax Pain Clinic, the Nova Scotia Health Authority said Thursday.  "The two physicians who work in the Dartmouth Pain Clinic will not be offering services after Dec. 31, 2017," health authority spokesperson Theresa Hawkesworth said. The clinic in the Dartmouth General Hospital treats people with chronic pain. A phone message at the clinic confirmed both doctors are leaving. It says anyone on the Dartmouth waiting list will be transferred to the Halifax clinic's wait-list. Hawkesworth said "there will be gaps, particularly in relation [to] opioid treatment" as the Dartmouth clinic shuts down. 1,400 people on Halifax waiting list now Dr. Ian Beauprie is the medical director of the pain clinic at Halifax's Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre. He said the 550 people on the Dartmouth wait-list will join the 850 already waiting for an appointment at the Halifax clinic. "We're trying not to disadvantage the people on the Dartmouth waiting list. We're trying to triage them based on the date of their original referral," he told CBC News Thursday. Ian Beauprie is part of an NSHA committee looking at pain treatment in Nova Scotia. (CBC) Loss of foreign doctor program cut at least 40 physicians from N.S. workforce He said the wait for the Halifax clinic had been about ten or 11 months, but would rise to 18 months to two years when it absorbs the Dartmouth list.  Beauprie said there are pain clinics across the province, including at the Hants Community Hospital, in Sydney and in Truro. Ideally, people would wait no more than six months for a first appointment, he said.  "We're going to be busier than we were before," he said.  "I don't think we will be able to solve the opioid crisis without being able to solve the chronic pain crisis." 'No plans' to replace physicians Claudia Chender, MLA for Dartmouth South, said a constituent alerted her to the problem recently. The person had waited a year to see someone at the Dartmouth clinic, got a couple of appointments, and then learned the clinic would have no doctors by the end of the year. "That was confirmed to me, that there is one doctor moving out of the Dartmouth General and into private practice in the community, another who is retiring and, as far as I know, there are no plans to replace those physicians," Chender said Thursday. Claudia Chender, the NDP MLA for Dartmouth South, said her constituents face a tough future for getting pain treatment. (CBC) Patient calls for new rules after family doctor retires without notice She said Dartmouth residents already struggle to access primary care and that another family doctor retired this month, leaving some 4,500 people without a doctor. Chender said losing the pain clinic could make it harder to recruit family physicians to the area, as family doctors often rely on specialists like those at the pain clinic to deal with complex cases. Tough choices for pain patients She said the two-year wait-list in Halifax showed it was a "crisis situation" in many parts of the health system. "For … these patients who live with really extreme chronic pain, what are the alternatives? If they can't find a prescribing doctor and they can't get a referral, the alternatives for that are very scary," she said. "You might end up with folks on the street where we know we have things like fentanyl and other illicit opioids." Nobody CBC spoke to knew how many patients are being treated at the Dartmouth clinic.  With files from Kayla Hounsell CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Health minister dodges questions on pregnant woman's search for doctor N.S. physician wait-list matches 10 per cent of patients in first year Loss of foreign doctor program cut at least 40 physicians from N.S. workforce Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now