Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Delta 9, Manitoba medical marijuana facility, offers glimpse inside A government-approved marijuana grower in Winnipeg shows CBC News how his business operates from the inside. Social Sharing Licensed grower John Arbuthnot shows CBC News his operation Nelly Gonzalez · CBC News · Posted: Jul 29, 2015 6:00 AM CT | Last Updated: July 29, 2015 Employees work in a drying room at Delta 9, a medical marijuana growing facility in Winnipeg. (CBC) comments Amid controversy surrounding illegal medical marijuana dispensaries in Canada, one government-approved Manitoba grower agreed to show CBC News how his business operates from the inside. Winnipeg's medical pot dispensary reopens despite risk of arrest Winnipeg medical pot dispensary questioned over fees for doctor's notes John Arbuthnot is the vice-president of Delta 9, the only medical marijuana growing facility in Manitoba that's licensed to sell cannabis. The warehouse in the east end of Winnipeg houses about 1,000 marijuana plants and is licensed to produce about 380 kilograms per year. An employee is seen trimming marijuana plants at Delta 9. (CBC) "These are some of the most potent and some of the priciest varieties that we have in our product portfolio," Arbuthnot said as he gave a CBC Manitoba crew a tour of the growing rooms this week. Arbuthnot said he got the idea for starting the business years ago after seeing the benefits of medical marijuana for some of his relatives who had medical conditions. Arbuthnot has a team of experienced marijuana growers at the facility. The plants are harvested and tested by Health Canada before they are packaged for commercial use. 'Growing pains' His business has been operating for about a year and there have been challenges. John Arbuthnot, vice president of Delta 9, runs a licensed medical marijuana growing facility in Winnipeg. (CBC) "Pardon the pun, but there's always growing pains with any new industry," he said. All 15 full-time employees at Delta 9 have had to undergo criminal background checks, and the high-security building is inspected by Health Canada every 30 days. Health Canada's strict regulations have taken time to adapt to, Arbuthnot said. "It's one thing for them to be words on a page; it's another thing to deal with the challenges that will arise," he said. Arbuthnot plans to expand the facility next year to meet a growing demand. Marijuana plants grow in grey bins in this growing room at Delta 9. (CBC) Right now, he has 750 registered clients from across Canada, with 1,300 patients on a waiting list. His government-approved facility stands in contrast to Your Medical Cannabis Headquarters, also in Winnipeg, which has been in the spotlight lately for staying open despite police orders to close. The controversy has led a Winnipeg doctor, who has admitted to writing medical marijuana authorization letters for select patients in the city, to distance himself from the dispensary. Vancouver has also had issues, with the number of medical marijuana dispensaries growing rapidly over the past year until there were almost 100 sites. The city responded by approving regulations that made it the first city in Canada to license and regulate pot shops.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Medical marijuana payouts to veterans highest in New Brunswick Marijuana found growing in Vancouver traffic circle disappears Man claimed he didn't notice 992 pot plants in Ancaster grow-op Winnipeg weeds out pot plants found in city hall flowerbed Winnipeg's first medical marijuana dispensary now open Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now