Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Departed Cape Breton doctor wants recruiters to consider whole family A family physician who left the northern Cape Breton community of Neils Harbour after two years because her husband could not find work is calling for a more holistic approach to doctor recruitment. Social Sharing Dr. Suha Masalmeh and her family left northern Cape Breton after her husband couldn't find work Holly Conners · CBC News · Posted: Oct 11, 2017 6:30 AM AT | Last Updated: October 11, 2017 Dr. Suha Masalmeh, right, with her husband and children in northern Cape Breton. (Submitted by Dr. Suha Masalmeh) A family doctor who recently left an underserved area of rural Cape Breton believes the province's recruitment strategy needs to focus more on how a physician's family will fit into a community. Dr. Suha Masalmeh was recruited to the Buchanan Memorial Community Health Centre in Neils Harbour, N.S., two years ago, and moved to the area with her husband and two daughters. "It's a lovely community. We really did love it and we really chose to be there," she said Tuesday. Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area Although her daughters have come to consider themselves Cape Bretoners, the family made the difficult decision to leave the area last month after her husband, a mental health counsellor, was not able to find work in the area. "That was an unfortunate thing, and we didn't even anticipate that when we first moved to the area because I remember, when I was recruited to the area they asked for his resume and they were really confident that there is a position for him," Masalmeh explained. "There is a big need for mental health counselling in general anywhere in the province. So there was no anticipation of difficulty for him to find a position." No work anywhere Masalmeh's husband has a master's in education counselling from Acadia University, but the openings he pursued with the Nova Scotia Health Authority required a degree in psychology or social work, she said. He also applied for a position as a guidance counsellor with the school board, she said, but was told he had to be a teacher. Masalmeh said other students in her husband's class, and previous graduates from the same program, have found work in Nova Scotia. The family has moved to New Glasgow in the hope that he'll have better luck in a bigger centre. Difficult decision The departure of Masalmeh has left the north-of-Smokey area of Cape Breton with three doctors to cover the caseloads of four, and two of those doctors are eager to retire, or at least work reduced hours. "I really feel saddened that I left my patients," Masalmeh said. "I had a great community around me, great staff working with [me] ... so it was really a difficult decision for us." Masalmeh has agreed to work on a locum basis in Neils Harbour as needed until a replacement is found. She'd like to see improvements to the recruitment process to avoid such situations in the future. Northern Cape Breton fears imminent health-care crisis with loss of doctor "It's good to actually include the whole picture of the whole family being together, not just that person being recruited to that position," she said, suggesting recruiters should try to match both spouses to an area more likely to offer work to each of them. "But it's better to start that early, because it does cost a lot of money to recruit physicians. So it's better to put it in the right direction from the beginning," she said. Health authority responds The Nova Scotia Health Authority has responded by saying there will always be doctors coming and going. "That is the nature of the health-care system," said authority spokeswoman Annette Bourgeois-Bent in an email. "They leave either temporarily or even permanently for any number of reasons, including personal, health, retirements or education/specialized training." Recruitment efforts lure 16 doctors to Cape Breton Bourgeois-Bent said recruitment doesn't happen overnight. "It can sometimes take up to a year or more to recruit a new physician to the area. Successful recruitment depends on many factors, including the fit with the community and a physician and his or her family. These factors are true in Nova Scotia, as well as across the country." Health minister promises more flexibility for doctors setting up practices CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Only 3 exit interviews done with Nova Scotia doctors in first year of project Northern Cape Breton fears imminent health-care crisis with loss of doctor Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now