Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Doctors highlight marijuana's health effects Canadian doctors say it's time to talk about the impacts of marijuana use on health. Social Sharing Legalize with care to benefit Canadian society, physicians say CBC News · Posted: Apr 13, 2017 8:02 PM ET | Last Updated: April 14, 2017 A woman smokes a marijuana cigarette at the Alternative Herbal Health Services cannabis dispensary April 24, 2006 in San Francisco, Calif. With legalization looming, Canadian doctors are talking about the health effects of marijuana. (Justin Sullivan/Getty) Canadian doctors say it's time to talk about the impacts of marijuana use on health. The Canadian Medical Association called Thursday for a strong public health approach to legalizing marijuana.  The group aims to: Prevent drug abuse and dependency. Ensure assessment, counselling and treatment services are available for those who wish to stop using. Increase safety for vulnerable groups such as young people, pregnant women and those with psychological and psychiatric illnesses. In people with psychological and psychiatric illnesses, marijuana can precipitate seizures and in some cases psychosis, said Dr. Granger Avery, CMA president. "That's why we made the recommendations about age and restricting access to certain groups." Liberals table legislation to legalize pot by July 2018 Why it's so hard to fight drug-impaired driving As legalization approaches, Dr. Robert Tanguay, a pain psychiatrist in Calgary, is focused on educating people as a form of prevention.  "I think the addiction medicine part of me is saying, 'You know, decriminalization is a good idea and legalization is a good idea,'" said Tanguay. "The psychiatrist in me is saying we have to be careful." Contrary to perception among some, marijuana isn't neutral or inert in its effect on people, Tanguay said. What are some of the harms and benefits? Smoking marijuana can produce chronic bronchitis-like illness. Cannabis interacts with almost all parts of nervous system and many tissues in the body, said Dr. Harold Kalant, a professor emeritus in the department of pharmacology and toxicology at the University of Toronto's medicine faculty,  Cannabis also increases the heart rate and workload on the heart. Physicians have reported instances of middle-aged men with narrowed arteries having heart attacks within an hour of toking. ANALYSIS | Marijuana research not reaching Canada's toking teens What's in your pot? Marketplace tests today's weed "And even more worrying, I think, are young men, men in their early 20s, suffering strokes," Kalant said. The number of published incidents of that happening in the medical literature is small and how it seems to occur isn't yet clear, he said.  Marijuana isn't neutral or inert in its effect on people. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) Another concern is how to regulate against stoned or impaired driving. Within medicine, the strongest medical marijuana research points to positive effects to: Relieve chronic pain (lasting three months or more) in adults. Stimulate appetite in people with cancer, AIDS and other diseases. Ease nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy. There are also potential benefits and ongoing clinical trials testing cannabis or its components to: Relieve muscle spasms in people with multiple sclerosis.  Reduce seizures in children with epilepsy that can't be controlled with existing medication. The extracts contain very low levels of psychoactive THC  favoured in recreational pot plants and higher cannabidiol or CBD. Kalant thinks that when cannabis is legalized, there should be "very clear specification of what the maximum percentages are of THC and the minimum percentages of CBD for both medical and not medical use." Apart from physical health, experts say legalization offers a chance to increase awareness and education among Canadians of all ages.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Marijuana's health impacts reviewed in U.S. report Analysis Marijuana research not reaching Canada's toking teens In Depth Drug-impaired driving: Complex challenges may accompany legalization of marijuana Will legalized marijuana lead to more addictions? Why it's so hard to fight drug-impaired driving Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now