Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Dr. Jalal Baghaee has licence revoked for lying on application A Nova Scotia doctor has had his licence revoked because he lied on his application. Social Sharing Dr. Jalal Baghaee practiced family medicine in Parrsboro, N.S., but specialized in pediatrics Blair Rhodes · CBC News · Posted: Sep 21, 2015 12:27 PM AT | Last Updated: September 21, 2015 comments A Nova Scotia doctor has had his licence revoked because he lied on his application. Dr. Jalal Baghaee has practiced family medicine in Parrsboro since 2012. He was granted a Nova Scotia licence under the Clinician Assessment for Practice Program (CAPP), which is designed to prepare internationally-trained doctors to work in under-served areas of Nova Scotia. Baghaee got in trouble because he lied on his CAPP application. He told the Nova Scotia College of Physicians and Surgeons, which administers the program, that he was trained to practice family medicine. However, Baghaee deliberately failed to tell the college that he spent the time from 1996 to 2000 training in pediatric medicine and that was his principle area of practice from 2000 to 2007. Baghaee told the College that he was afraid if Nova Scotia authorities knew he was trained as a pediatric specialist, he'd be rejected for CAPP. Baghaee and his wife moved to Canada in 2007. He told the college that after three years in Canada, their financial situation was extremely difficult. Baghaee said he was warned by other internationally-trained doctors that Nova Scotia was only interested in family doctors, not specialists. While there were no concerns about Baghaee's competence, the college was worried about what the lies said about his character. "In the view of the committee, this matter threatened the integrity of the medical profession," the college decision states. "It raises questions of fairness and justice. "The harm lies in the loss of public confidence in the event the College tolerates the subversion of its licencing processes without strong denunciation." Baghaee will be able to apply for a new medical licence after waiting a minimum of three months. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now