Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Education minister says $800K offer to N.S. teachers union will expire Zach Churchill says the $800,000 compensation offer for the government's removal of principals and vice-principals from the Nova Scotia Teachers Union is still on the table — but not indefinitely. Social Sharing Zach Churchill warns money will eventually go to other aspects of education, if union doesn't accept The Canadian Press · Posted: Feb 08, 2018 3:00 PM AT | Last Updated: February 8, 2018 Nova Scotia Education Minister Zach Churchill says the money will be redirected if the Nova Scotia Teachers Union doesn't want it. (Canadian Press) Nova Scotia's education minister says the $800,000 compensation offer for the government's removal of principals and vice-principals from the Nova Scotia Teachers Union is still on the table — but not indefinitely. Zach Churchill said Thursday that other areas of the education system require investment and the money may well be used for something else if the union refuses the government's offer. So far, the teachers union has flatly rejected the government's offer to make up union dues that would be lost over the first year, calling it a move to buy off the union and its membership. Churchill said while there's no firm number yet, about 1,000 principals, vice-principals, and school board management supervisors would be affected by the pending change. New laws are expected during the upcoming legislative session to enact many of the reforms recommended last month by education consultant Avis Glaze. Among her 22 recommendations, Glaze said principals and vice-principals should be moved into a new professional association to eliminate any potential conflict of interest when both management and employees are in the same union. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Province offering teachers union $800K amid school board reforms, premier says Teachers union pulls co-chair from classroom council over Glaze report Nova Scotia to dissolve elected school boards in favour of advisory council Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now