Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Enforcement coming to illegal marijuana dispensaries in Saskatoon, says new police chief Marijuana dispensaries in Saskatoon could soon have law enforcement at their doorsteps. Saskatoon Police Service’s new chief elect, Troy Cooper, said Wednesday the dispensaries operating now are outside the law. Social Sharing Troy Cooper says it's not fair some marijuana dispensaries are operating ahead of legalization Micki Cowan · CBC News · Posted: Jan 17, 2018 5:44 PM CT | Last Updated: January 17, 2018 Saskatoon's newly appointed police chief, Troy Cooper, said illegal marijuana dispensaries can expect enforcement when he takes office at the end of February. (CBC) Marijuana dispensaries in Saskatoon could soon have law enforcement at their doorsteps. The Saskatoon Police Service's new chief elect, Troy Cooper, said Wednesday the dispensaries operating now are outside the law.   "Once I get here — I think five weeks from now — if things are still in the same situation that we are in now, then yes, absolutely, we will be addressing that through enforcement," he said. Troy Cooper will be Saskatoon's first Métis police chief Police raids send message to Winnipeg pot shops: Weed isn't legal yet Cooper will take the helm of the police service at the end of February. It's not fair to people who have been waiting patiently to have a legal, authorized business, to allow other people to run out ahead and to operate outside the law, outside regulations that are intended to keep people safe.- Troy Cooper He said the need for enforcement is related to safety and regulations. Because the businesses and sales are unregulated, police can't be sure they're operating in a safe manner, he said. Dispensaries already selling pot are getting a business advantage ahead of the Canada-wide legalization of recreational cannabis on July 1, according to Cooper. "It's not fair to people who have been waiting patiently to have a legal, authorized business, to allow other people to run out ahead and to operate outside the law, outside regulations that are intended to keep people safe," Cooper said. Dispensaries to make 'headlines' in Regina Cooper's comments come the day after Regina's police chief said that service might still lay charges against marijuana dispensary owners before the drug becomes legal, adding that the public can expect "headlines" in the coming weeks. Regina police chief says expect 'headlines' as pot dispensaries face possible charges before legalization Chief Evan Bray told reporters in Regina that the police service would be educating the dispensaries, and the public, to make it clear that selling marijuana is still not legal. Past crackdowns It wouldn't be the first time illegal dispensaries are targeted in Saskatoon. The Saskatchewan Compassion Club was raided by Saskatoon police officers in October 2015. Four people at the dispensary were arrested and charged that day. Most of the charges were dropped in 2017, although the business pleaded guilty to one count of trafficking and was fined $6,500. Saskatchewan Compassion Club raided by Saskatoon police with files by Jennifer Quesnel CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Troy Cooper will be Saskatoon's first Métis police chief Regina police chief says expect 'headlines' as pot dispensaries face possible charges before legalization Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now