Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Expect 'ugly battle' over public sector wage freeze, Regina professor says Saskatchewan's billion-dollar deficit must be dealt with, but don't expect public sector unions to quietly go along with wage freezes, a Regina university professor says. Social Sharing Provincial goverment wants wage freeze to deal with $1B deficit CBC News · Posted: Jan 18, 2017 1:07 PM CT | Last Updated: January 18, 2017 Public administration professor Ken Rasmussen says an ugly battle could be brewing between the government and public sector unions over a proposed wage freeze. (CBC) Saskatchewan's billion-dollar deficit must be dealt with, but don't expect public sector unions to quietly go along with wage freezes, a Regina university professor says. "It's going to be an ugly battle, I suspect," said Ken Rasmussen, who teaches public policy at the Johnson Shoyama Graduate School of Public Policy. RELATED: Sask. government orders entire public service to cap employee compensation Rasmussen was reacting to the letter sent to school divisions this month laying out the province's dire financial situation and ordering management to hold the line on employee compensation. Similar letters were sent out to management groups throughout the public sector. "There may be a need to consider such things as freezing in range increments, general wage increases and performance/bonus pay, for both in and out of scope employees in order to meet the requirement to contain and control the total cost of public sector compensation," the Jan. 13 letter said. I doubt that most workers are going to go down and say, 'Here's some money for you to pay off your debts.'- Public policy professor Ken Rasmussen Rasmussen said it's surprising the government is being so specific on how employers are supposed to cut spending, instead of simply telling them there will be a cut and allowing them to figure it out for themselves. And it's "a bit rich" for the government to ask people to forget about their negotiated collective agreements, he said.  "I doubt that most workers are going to go down and say, 'Here's some money for you to pay off your debts,'" Rasmussen said. "That's not going to happen." It's sensible that any deficit-reduction plan would be a balanced approach, involving wage restraint, program cuts and revenue enhancements, he said. On the other hand, putting the focus on compensation might be partly about optics, he added. "It may not make sense in terms of fiscal planning, but it makes sense in terms of sending a signal to the people of Saskatchewan," he said. Finance Minister Kevin Doherty said this week that the province is not ruling anything out, including tax increases. It could be a matter of eliminating tax exemptions, raising rates, or finding "new types of taxes" that exist in other jurisdictions. Government of Saskatchewan letter to school divisions Jan. 13, 2017Mobile users: View the document Government of Saskatchewan letter to school divisions Jan. 13, 2017 (PDF KB) Government of Saskatchewan letter to school divisions Jan. 13, 2017 (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Labour president says Sask. government looking for deficit 'scapegoat' Sask. government orders entire public service to cap employee compensation Dealing with the deficit: Wall says action will not be delayed 'There's going to be an impact': Province suspends community rink grant program Sask. MLAs to take wage freeze next year Sask. now projects $1B deficit for 2016-17 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now