Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon·Opinion Faith-based health care should end with Sask.'s health region amalgamation Why are we still allowing publicly funded, faith-based organizations to run health-care facilities when they unabashedly discriminate in the health care they provide? Social Sharing Some Catholic-run hospitals in Sask. refuse to provide certain services Ailsa M. Watkinson · CBC News · Posted: Nov 14, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: November 14, 2017 St. Paul's Hospital in Saskatoon does not permit abortions to be performed in the facility. (Peter Mills/CBC) comments In 2006, the St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Humboldt, Sask., transferred a woman, who had just given birth, to a Saskatoon Hospital to have a tubal ligation. At the time, the hospital in Humboldt was Catholic-run and it refused to perform tubal ligations. The woman filed a complaint with the Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission, which found that she had been discriminated against in the provision of health care on the basis of her sex and religion. Eventually, the hospital board ended its Catholic affiliation and the hospital is now run as a public hospital within the Saskatoon Health Region. Some Catholic hospitals are refusing to offer physician-assisted death and it's unclear whether the provinces will force them to provide the service. (Getty Images/Blend Images) Still today, though, there are at least five Catholic-run hospitals in Saskatchewan. They all receive public funding to provide a public service, yet are permitted to deny citizens their right to reproductive health care. Now, they are refusing to provide medically assistance dying, too. Some publicly funded faith-based care homes are also refusing to assist with medically assisted dying. This begs the question: Why are we still allowing publicly funded, faith-based organizations to run health-care facilities when they unabashedly discriminate in the health care they provide? One year after Canada's medically assisted dying law, patients face uneven access Board members appointed to new Saskatchewan Health Authority New province-wide health authority to be based in Saskatoon The health care being denied to citizens at Catholic-run hospitals are rights that have been fought for and won through the courts on the basis that such health care is to be provided to all citizens, free of discrimination. In the cases of reproductive health and medically assistance dying, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that access to these health services are fundamental to a person's security and liberty — and, further, that these rights cannot be denied on the basis of sex or disability. Despite this, faith-based institutions in Saskatchewan remain unabated and publicly funded. In Saskatoon, we have accommodated St. Paul's Hospital's discriminatory restrictions on health services by adjusting the types of health services offered in specific hospitals. For example, St. Paul's does not permit abortions to be performed in its facility, nor does it provide medically assistance dying. New Sask. hospital shouldn't be Catholic-run, Humboldt council says Why you can't get a doctor-assisted death at St. Joseph's in London The only institutional palliative care unit available within the current Saskatoon Health Region is located in St. Paul's Hospital.   Patients in St. Paul's seeking medically assistance dying are transferred to other local hospitals by ambulance. We know of at least two deaths, in other jurisdictions, occurring in the ambulance en route to a hospital that provides MAID. The daughter of one of the patients who died while being transferred described his journey as painful. This is cruel, often painful and always despairing for the patient and family. 2 more resignations follow St. Boniface Hospital decision on assisted death Currently, Saskatchewan is undergoing a massive shift in the administration of health care as we amalgamate into one provincial health region. This is the perfect time to move all publicly funded faith-based health-care institutions into one public health-care system.   This is not an argument about the overall quality of health care provided by faith-based institutions but rather the recognition that health care is a right to be provided without discrimination and free from the restrictive doctrines of one's faith. About the Author Ailsa M. Watkinson Ailsa M. Watkinson is a professor in the Faculty of Social Work at the University of Regina, Saskatoon Campus. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Board members appointed to new Saskatchewan Health Authority New Sask. hospital shouldn't be Catholic-run, Humboldt council says Why you can't get a doctor-assisted death at St. Joseph's in London 2 more resignations follow St. Boniface Hospital decision on assisted death One year after Canada's medically assisted dying law, patients face uneven access New province-wide health authority to be based in Saskatoon Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now