Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Farmer fumes after marijuana expert made guest speaker at agriculture AGM The Hants County chapter of the Nova Scotia Federation of Agriculture is standing behind its decision to bring in Av Singh, an expert on marijuana production in North America. Social Sharing 'This is not growing corn, this is just asinine,' says Hants County farmer Kim Kenney CBC News · Posted: Nov 02, 2017 1:15 PM AT | Last Updated: November 2, 2017 The Hants County chapter of the Nova Scotia Federation of Agriculture hosted a marijuana production expert at its annual meeting. (CBC News) A Hants County farmer is not happy with the choice of guest speaker made by his local chapter of the Nova Scotia Federation of Agriculture for their annual general meeting. Martock farmer Kim Kenney is upset Av Singh, an expert on marijuana production in North America, was a speaker at Wednesday night's meeting in Windsor. "This is not growing corn, this is just asinine," said Kenney. "It's totally inappropriate for us as the federation of agriculture to be looking at this. It is not an issue for farmers to be getting into in Nova Scotia." The Nova Scotia Federation of Agriculture represents more than 2,000 farming businesses in the province. The decision to have Singh speak about growing marijuana came as a late add to the meeting's agenda. But the organizers are standing by their decision. "At this point it's not legal, but it's not illegal to talk about it and when it becomes legalized why wouldn't it become an option for farmers," said Hants Federation of Agriculture president Cameron Taylor. "It's a new kind of thing that's going on, so why not?" Should pot be sold with liquor at the NSLC? The province wants your say Marijuana legalization brings opportunity for P.E.I. producer Taylor said his group often finds it difficult to find guest speakers for their meetings. He's encouraging anyone who doesn't like the chapter's decisions to come to the meetings and share their concerns. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now