Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Federal campaigns have educated millions of youths about dangers of pot: minister Health Minister Ginette Petitpas Taylor says the federal government has reached millions of young Canadians through various public education campaigns aimed at informing them about the health and safety risks of using cannabis. Social Sharing Joan Bryden · The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 28, 2018 8:11 PM ET | Last Updated: March 29, 2018 Ginette Petitpas Taylor, Federal Minister of Health and Bill Blair hold a press conference in foyer of the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Monday, March 19, 2018. (Sean Kilpatrick/THE CANADIAN PRESS) comments Health Minister Ginette Petitpas Taylor says the federal government has reached millions of young Canadians through public education campaigns aimed at informing them about the health and safety risks of using cannabis. The lack of a visible, national public awareness campaign is among the top concerns of senators who are currently studying the bill to legalize recreational marijuana. But if senators haven't seen the campaigns, Petitpas Taylor says that's because they're not aimed at people in their age group; they're aimed at young people who are the considered the most vulnerable to the potential adverse health impacts of cannabis use. And that means the campaigns are showing up on social media platforms and web banners, not primarily on television or radio. Campaigns targeting young people Petitpas Taylor says one program, started last year and targeting 13- to 24-year-olds, has reached 7.9 million young people through social media and 47 million through web banners. Moreover, she says 64 million have seen a public safety campaign to discourage drug-impaired driving, targeting youths through Facebook, Instagram, Spotify, Youtube, Chatbox and other social media platforms. As well, signs warning against driving high have also been placed in 210 cinemas across the country. 'It's a big piece for reconciliation': Sask. NDP asks Ottawa for pot possession pardons PhotosWhy some yoga classes are using pot in their practice No reason legalized pot should prompt tighter screening at U.S. border: Goodale "We're going to great lengths to ensure that accurate information is being delivered to young people," Petitpas Taylor told the Senate's social affairs committee Wednesday. In addition to targeting youths, she said Health Canada has been conducting an education campaign targeting parents, running ads on social media, television and radio. And the department has partnered with Drug Free Kids Canada to distribute more than 180,000 "Cannabis Talk" kits to help parents discuss the issue with their children. "I am confident that our comprehensive public awareness campaign will increase Canadians' understanding of the facts on cannabis and will ultimately protect their health and safety." Senators unconvinced But not all senators seemed reassured. "Nowhere have I seen evidence of how this particular age group, 18-25, will be protected and kept well-informed," said Independent Sen. Chantal Petitclerc at one point. Conservative Sen. Nancy Greene Raine said that by legalizing marijuana, the government is sending "a very strong message to young people that it's OK." And fellow Conservative Sen. Vern White questioned how the government can say it's trying to discourage cannabis use among young people when the bill would allow their parents to grow up to four plants in their home, where it would be easily accessible to kids. However, Petitpas Taylor argued that Canadian youth between the ages of 15 and 24 are already "among the highest users of cannabis in the world." The objective of legalization is to regulate it and make it harder for young people to get their hands on it. Liberal MP Bill Blair, a former Toronto police chief who is the Liberal government's point man on cannabis legalization, told the committee that educating parents who intend to grow their own pot will also be important. "Frankly, any parent has a responsibility to protect their children from anything, from the medicine cabinet, from anything that can cause them harm," he said, noting that the main source of alcohol for underage kids is "swiping it out of their father's liquor cabinet." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'It's a big piece for reconciliation': Sask. NDP asks Ottawa for pot possession pardons Photos Why some yoga classes are using pot in their practice No reason legalized pot should prompt tighter screening at U.S. border: Goodale As pot rules change, sport doping rules will stay the same Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now