Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Federal marijuana legislation clears House of Commons, headed for the Senate MPs passed the Liberal government's bill to legalize cannabis Monday evening, sending the legislation down the hall to the Senate for further study and debate. Social Sharing Bill C-45 will now go to the Senate for further scrutiny John Paul Tasker · CBC News · Posted: Nov 27, 2017 5:12 PM ET | Last Updated: November 28, 2017 Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale, from left, Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould and then health minister Jane Philpott introduced the federal government's legislation last April. Bill C-45 could pass a key hurdle tonight. (The Canadian Press / Adrian Wyld) comments MPs passed the Liberal government's bill to legalize cannabis Monday evening, sending the legislation down the hall to the Senate for further study and debate. The legislation was largely supported along partisan lines, although it secured the support of the NDP and Green Party Leader Elizabeth May. The final vote was 200 MPs in favour, with 82 against. Conservative MP Scott Reid voted for the bill after he polled constituents in his eastern Ontario riding, Lanark—Frontenac—Kingston, and found a plurality supported the Liberal plan. A last-ditch Conservative effort to delay the bill — and send it to the Commons health committee for further study — failed by a vote of 83 to 199 with some Bloc Québecois MPs voting with Tory legislators. Conservative opposition will now fall to their national caucus colleagues in the Red Chamber, where some senators have already signalled they are prepared to give the bill a rough ride. Some Tories have said the government's timeline for legalization, July 1, 2018, is far too ambitious. The Liberal government ultimately accepted three significant amendments to the bill made by the Commons committee tasked with studying the landmark legislation — the government has agreed to ditch its plan to cap marijuana plants maintained in a person's home to 100 centimetres tall. MPs felt such a requirement would be too difficult to enforce. The government also accepted an amendment that would demand regulations be enacted, one year from Bill C-45's passage, on edible cannabis products, something ignored by Liberal legislators in this bill. The government also agreed to review the bill in three years. Proposed pot regulations open door to craft growers, licensing non-violent offenders From fire safety to zoning, pot legalization 'cuts across pretty much every city department' The bill will have to secure the support of an increasingly independent Senate where a plurality of members now sit as members of the Independent Senators Group (ISG) and thus owe no loyalty to the government's agenda or their Liberal colleagues in the House. However, based on a CBC News analysis of voting patterns, many ISG senators have shown to be faithful backers of Liberal legislation. Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould had said, before the vote, that Bill C-45 marks an "important milestone" in the government's plans to keep pot profits out of the hands of organized crime and marijuana out of the hands of kids. She also says she looks forward to further debate in the Senate. The federal NDP supported the government's legislation, adding it was pleased to see amendments to the bill, including a decision to scrap a requirement that limited home-grown marijuana plants. New Democrat health critic Don Davies said the original bill was also amended to require that legislation for cannabis edibles and concentrates be brought forward within a year. Conservative health critic Marilyn Gladu says the Tories have been pushing for the Liberal government to reconsider its arbitrary timeline for implementing marijuana legalization, noting it would be more responsible to consider a July 2019 deadline instead of July 2018. With files from the Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Proposed pot regulations open door to craft growers, licensing non-violent offenders Cities grapple with bylaw and regulation changes as they race to make legal pot deadline Q&A How to talk with your kids about cannabis use after legalization How the provinces are planning for pot legalization Cancer and lung associations recommend existing smoking bylaws apply to marijuana Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now