Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Federal government calls roadside drug-test device trial a success despite cold weather issues The federal government is declaring its testing of saliva drug screening devices that check for drugged drivers at the roadside has been a success despite remaining issues related to how accurate test results are in cold weather conditions. Social Sharing 'There are people on the road right now, impaired with marijuana, so any advance is better than none' Peter Zimonjic · CBC News · Posted: Jun 06, 2017 6:05 PM ET | Last Updated: June 6, 2017 The federal government's recent trial of roadside oral-fluid devices designed to detect if a driver has drugs in their system were carried out during the winter to determine if cold weather impacted the results. (CBC) comments The federal government is declaring its testing of saliva drug screening devices that check for drugged drivers at the roadside a success despite lingering issues over how accurate the test results are in cold weather conditions.   A report released by Public Safety Canada examined the results of 1,141 saliva samples collected by police officers across the country between December 2016 and March 2017. Officers who used the devices reported them as "very easy" to use 62 per cent of the time, with another 29 per cent saying there were "easy" and only two per cent saying they found the devices difficult to use. Officers also said that in 92 per cent of cases they were either "comfortable" or "very comfortable" using the devices. "Drug impaired driving is a serious problem and giving law enforcement more tools to detect and deter drug-impaired driving will better protect our communities," said Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale. "I am pleased the pilot project demonstrates this technology works in our unique Canadian environment." Police in limbo over funding for roadside drug tests Government introduces changes to impaired driving laws Pot-impaired driving alarms raised  For the purpose of the trial, police used the Securetec DrugRead and the Alere DDS-2 testing devices. A key objective of the trial was to see if the devices would work in the deep cold of a Canadian winter. The devices were also tested in rainy and sunny conditions ranging in temperature from –50 degrees to 26 degrees. The report notes that 65 per cent of tests (731) were administered outside of the manufacturer's suggested temperature operating range. The results showed that while the devices worked, they were "more likely to produce drug-positive result" in cold conditions. The federal government has just wrapped up a pilot project using two different oral-fluid testing devices including this one, the Alere DDS®2 Mobile Test System. (CBC) Temperature related results The report notes that 80 per cent of all positive results were recorded when people were tested outside the temperature range recommended by the manufacturer. "Consequently, further research on the reliability of devices used outside of standard operating temperatures is merited," the report says. Ian Jack, a spokesman for the Canadian Automobile Association, was himself the subject of a roadside trial of the device in Gatineau, Que., last winter. Liberals table bills to legalize pot, clamp down on impaired driving Jack says he was not high on drugs at the time of the test and the result came back negative, demonstrating a degree of accuracy, yet he still has some misgivings about the technology. "The accuracy rate is a bit of a concern," he says. "But we have to use the best technology we have on hand right now. "There are people on the road right now, impaired with marijuana, so any advance is better than none," he added. Determining impairment The trial was spread across the provinces and territories in 25 different communities, with each of the 53 officers trained to use the devices carrying out an average of just under two dozen tests each. The devices were determined to record a malfunction in about seven per cent of the 1,141 samples taken. In 42 per cent of cases where there was a recorded fault, the cause was unknown. Temperature, however, was determined to be the cause 17 per cent of the time. The report says that a positive drug test came back 15 per cent of the time. The most common drugs found were marijuana at 61 per cent, followed by methamphetamines and amphetamines at 23 per cent each, cocaine  at 14 per cent, opiates at nine per cent and benzodiazepines at three per cent. Of the 148 positive tests recorded, 38 recorded the presence of more than one drug. Securetec's DrugWipe® 6 S saliva testing device can detect a number of drugs including cannabis, amphetamines, methamphetamines, ecstasy, benzodiazepines, cocaine, crack, and opiates, including morphine and heroin. (CBC) The report says, however, that "It is important to note that presence of a drug in the oral fluid does not imply impairment." The inability to test how much drug or how impaired a driver may be does not concern Mothers Against Drunk Driving, according to the organization's CEO Andrew Murie. "That's not what this is really all about," Murie said. "That's a screener. It doesn't need to reveal an amount. It just needs to say that recently a driver has used one of the drugs they are testing for and tests confirm they are positive for that." Murie says the saliva devices are not used in court, they just give police the power to compel a blood test in which a more comprehensive and accurate result can be obtained. The federal government tabled its bill to legalize marijuana in April and says it expects the law to work its way through Parliament and become law on or before July 1, 2018. Final Report on the Oral Fluid Drug Screening Device Pilot ProjectMobile users: View the document Final Report on the Oral Fluid Drug Screening Device Pilot Project (PDF KB) Final Report on the Oral Fluid Drug Screening Device Pilot Project (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Police across Canada in limbo over who will pay for roadside drug testing Trudeau government introduces sweeping changes to impaired driving laws Pot-impaired driving alarms raised in wake of marijuana task force report Enforcing new marijuana laws will be costly, warns justice minister Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now