Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Feds willing to give more pot tax revenue to provinces to help municipalities The Trudeau government is willing to give provinces and territories a bigger share of the revenue from a federal excise tax on cannabis, provided that the extra money is devoted to helping municipalities cope with the impact of legalizing recreational pot. Social Sharing Official says government willing to increase excise tax share Joan Bryden · The Canadian Press · Posted: Dec 04, 2017 8:32 AM ET | Last Updated: December 4, 2017 Under the current proposal, the federal government would impose an excise tax of $1 per gram of marijuana or 10 per cent of the final retail price, whichever is higher, with half the revenue going to provinces and territories. (CBC) comments The Trudeau government is willing to give provinces and territories a bigger share of the revenue from a federal excise tax on cannabis, provided that the extra money is devoted to helping municipalities cope with the impact of legalizing recreational pot. The feds have proposed giving provincial and territorial governments half of the estimated $1-billion annual excise tax take once weed becomes legal next July. But The Canadian Press has learned that Finance Minister Bill Morneau and his officials have signalled a willingness to increase that share during discussions with their provincial and territorial counterparts. The discussions have been taking place in preparation for a meeting of federal, provincial and territorial finance ministers Dec. 10-11, where the issue of cannabis taxation is expected to be front and centre. Cities fight for legal marijuana revenue as Ottawa reveals minimum $1 per gram tax Quebec municipalities vying for one third of pot tax revenues How the provinces are planning for pot legalization Any increase in the provincial share will obviously mean less for federal coffers. But precisely how much less than 50 per cent the federal government is willing to accept has not yet been revealed. Costs needed for policing, zoning: Tory A government official close to the discussions, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter, said it's too early to float specific numbers. The final decision will rest on an assessment of the needs of the municipalities — and a willingness by provinces and territories to agree to devote the extra revenue to those needs, the official said. Mayors across the country have raised concerns about the potential cost to municipalities. "We all need to know that legalization will not download unsustainable financial or operational burdens to municipalities," the Federation of Canadian Municipalities says on its website. Toronto Mayor John Tory has predicted municipalities will face additional costs for policing, enforcement, public health, zoning and licensing. He wrote Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne last July, asking her to consider dedicating a portion of provincial pot revenues — possibly through a special levy — to municipalities. "Whatever decisions are made, I have no doubt the result will be increased costs for the City of Toronto," Tory wrote. Toronto Mayor John Tory wrote Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne last July, asking her to consider dedicating a portion of provincial pot revenues — possibly through a special levy — to municipalities. (John Rieti/CBC) The federal government is sympathetic to the concerns of municipalities, the official said. Under the current proposal, the federal government would impose an excise tax of $1 per gram of marijuana or 10 per cent of the final retail price, whichever is higher, with half the revenue going to provinces and territories. Federal and provincial sales taxes would be applied on top of that. Final price tag will vary by province A one-month public consultation period on the excise tax proposal closes on Dec. 7, just ahead of the finance ministers' meeting. Premiers have been complaining since early October, when Prime Minister Justin Trudeau first unveiled the excise tax plan, that a 50-50 revenue split with Ottawa is not good enough. They maintain their governments will shoulder the lion's share of the cost of legalization — including public education, policing and road safety — and should, therefore, get the lion's share of the tax revenue. Co-ordinating cannabis taxation with the provinces is crucial to the federal objective of drumming organized crime and gangs out of the illegal pot business and keeping marijuana out of the hands of minors. If the price of legal marijuana is not competitive, the black market will continue to flourish. Under the federal proposal, sales and excise taxes would be levied on both fresh and dried marijuana, pot-infused oils and seeds and seedlings used for home cultivation. They would also be applied to medical marijuana, on which only HST is currently levied. That proposal has drawn fire but the government argues it's necessary to ensure there's no incentive for people to seek out medical pot just because it's cheaper. The final price tag for legal weed will vary across the country because provinces have different sales taxes. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories How the provinces are planning for pot legalization Cities grapple with bylaw and regulation changes as they race to make legal pot deadline High or dry? Manitoba municipalities must decide if they'll allow marijuana sales by Christmas Quebec municipalities vying for one third of pot tax revenues Government still can't say when legal pot goes on sale in Canada Cities fight for legal marijuana revenue as Ottawa reveals minimum $1 per gram tax Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now