Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Final fall sitting begins for Premier Brad Wall The fall sitting of the Saskatchewan Legislature begins on Wednesday afternoon with a Throne Speech. Social Sharing 'This is not going to be a lame duck session of the House,' says outgoing leader Stefani Langenegger · CBC News · Posted: Oct 25, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: October 25, 2017 After nearly a decade as premier of Saskatchewan, Brad Wall is preparing for his last series of question periods before retiring from politics. (CBC) Saskatchewan's premier will have mixed emotions as he walks up the front steps of the legislative building to hear today's throne speech. "It's bittersweet," Brad Wall told reporters about his last fall sitting of the Legislature, after a decade as premier and nearly two decades as the Saskatchewan Party MLA for Swift Current. Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall retiring from politics "Obviously you get to the point where you start to look forward to what's next but there is a lot of work to do. There really is," Wall said. "This is not going to be a lame duck session of the House. You'll see. We have a very busy program." Wall cited elements of the government's 2020 Plan for Growth, which still need to be implemented, as well as election promises to keep, including individualized money for children with autism and property tax deferrals for seniors with incomes below $70,000. Rainy day fund, debt reduction included in Saskatchewan Party platform The provincial government must also be ready with legislation to deal with the federal government's plan to legalize marijuana by next summer. Sask. NDP ready to raise concerns The Opposition NDP will enter the assembly with one more MLA than it had in the spring sitting, after Vicki Mowat won a byelection in Saskatoon that was required after the resignation of former Sask. Party MLA Jennifer Campeau. Interim leader Nicole Sarauer said she welcomes another voice to hold the government accountable for its tough spring budget. Interim Opposition leader Nicole Sarauer says people are still angry with the government over its tough spring budget. "People are angry. People are frustrated with the government," she said. "They're sick of the desperate sell-offs, the unfair tax hikes and the heartless cuts that are happening throughout the province," Sarauer said, referring to an expanded provincial sales tax, the shutdown of the government's bus company and chops to education. The fall sitting wraps on Dec. 6, after which both parties will elect new leaders. Members of the governing Sask. Party vote for their new leader, who will also become the province's next premier, in January. From PST to pot: Sask. Party leadership hopefuls square off in 1st debate Sask. NDP to elect a new leader on March 3, 2018 The Opposition NDP elects a new leader in March — just days before the spring sitting is scheduled to begin on March 5, 2018. Corrections A previous version of this story had stated Vicki Mowat had won a byelection in Saskatoon after the death of a Sask. Party MLA. In fact, the byelection was required after the resignation of Jennifer Campeau. Oct 25, 2017 9:25 AM CT About the Author Stefani Langenegger Reporter Stefani Langenegger has been with CBC Saskatchewan for more than two decades. She covered provincial politics for more than 15 years, before joining The Morning Edition as host. Follow Stefani on Twitter Read more articles by Stefani Langenegger CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories From PST to pot: Sask. Party leadership hopefuls square off in 1st debate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now