Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury First Nations say they weren't consulted on legalized cannabis plan When cannabis becomes legal next July, only people 19 years of age and older in Ontario will be able to buy it at government-run retailers. But what about on reserves? Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 12, 2017 6:00 AM ET | Last Updated: December 12, 2017 Ontario regional chief Isadore Day says First Nations were not consulted in the government's plan to legalize marijuana. (CBC) When cannabis becomes legal next July, only people 19 years of age and older in Ontario will be able to buy it at government-run retailers. That's the plan in a bill currently making its way through Queen's Park. However, First Nations say the proposed legislation makes no mention of them, and they say they should be the ones to decide how sales will be controlled on reserves. Isadore Day, Ontario's regional chief, says it's not clear how the new pot law will apply to First Nations. "There was very little inclusion of First Nations in the development of the bill, very little consultation," he said. Isadore Day is the Ontario Regional Chief with the Chiefs of Ontario. (Waubgeshig Rice/CBC) "Although we knew, there was no real engagement from the Ontario government, so therefore once introduced, as a result of the rapid pace by which it was moving through the federal ranks of legislation, we simply were rendered not ready for this." Day says he believes First Nations should be part of the legalization process. "Every First Nation community has the right to choose and because the province didn't include us in the front end, there's no existing framework for us now going forward," he said. "This really will be a logistical nightmare for the province to sort that out now, because there are dispensaries in the communities now." Day says he's been in talks with Ontario Attorney General Yasir Naqvi to figure out how the new law impacts First Nation communities. He adds he believes both the provincial and federal governments are rushing legislation through. With files from Waubgeshig Rice CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram Ontario communities can delay but not opt out of pot shops, province says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now