Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Indigenous First Nations in Saskatchewan question provincial jurisdiction over marijuana sales First Nations in Sasakatchewan are wondering why the province has jurisdiction over cannabis retail on-reserve. Social Sharing 'It's not too late for federal government to accommodate First Nations,' says chief Lynn Acoose Brad Bellegarde · CBC News · Posted: Jan 08, 2018 7:27 PM ET | Last Updated: January 9, 2018 The province of Saskatchewan has released its pot legislation and some Saskatchewan First Nations are questioning the eligibility requirements for acquiring a licence. According to the province, eligible communities need to have a population of at least 2,500 people and that leaves many First Nations out of the retail opportunity. (CBC) Three Indigenous communities in Saskatchewan have been approved to apply for a licence to sell marijuana by the province of Saskatchewan following its cannabis policy announcement on Monday. Those communities are Onion Lake Cree Nation, Peter Ballantyne Cree Nation and Lac La Ronge Indian Band. But jurisdiction is of major concern for First Nations who are interested in becoming retailers of cannabis, and are wondering why the province has jurisdiction over cannabis retail on-reserve. SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says First Nations aim to capitalize on economic opportunity of legal pot industry "I feel that we are going to be at the mercy of the provincial government when it comes to establishing cannabis sales as a profitable business," said Lynn Acoose, chief of Sakimay First Nation in Treaty 4 territory. "I would like to see federal regulation on reserve as opposed to being subject to provincial regulation," said Acoose. Sakimay First Nation has four properties in urban centres that Acoose said would be great potential retail locations. According to Acoose, two properties are in Regina and two are in Yorkton, Sask. "It's not too late for the federal government to accommodate First Nations being self-regulating with regards to cannabis — both production and retail," said Acoose. Accose said access to cannabis is going to be an obstacle for many rural community members. "I think they're really underestimating the demand," she said. Lack of meaningful consultation According to Acoose, she hasn't seen any evidence of consultation with First Nations by the province and thinks if there had been, the legislation would look "a bit" different. The Saskatchewan government said in an email the community selection was based primarily on population with a goal of geographic coverage and communities will be contacted in the coming days to answer questions about the process of opting in or out. Eligible communities need to have a population base of at least 2,500 people in order to apply for a licence. In the case of First Nations, the population is based on the number of band members living on-reserve. First Nations communities look to marijuana industry for economic opportunities 'Foolish not to': Manitoba First Nations want in on legal pot sales? The Federation of Sovereign Indigenous Nations (FSIN) said it has been making an effort to create partnerships and relationships based on mutual respect for jurisdiction and rights. "The past history hasn't been the best," said David Pratt, FSIN's second vice-chief. Pratt said a prime example of the province not consulting is the auction of Crown lands.  Sask. to sell 75 more parcels of Crown land in online auction According to the provincial treaty land entitlement agreement, First Nations have the first right of refusal on the sale of Crown lands. "In the announcement today ... we're not surprised by it," said Pratt. "They have a duty to consult framework ... a lot of the times they came after the fact. They come to us the day of or a week before they make the announcement and that's unacceptable." Pratt said there are other First Nations in the province that are looking at getting involved in the production and retail side of cannabis, so they support each member nation's decision and will do whatever they can to assist their endeavours. About the Author Brad Bellegarde Reporter for CBC Indigenous based in Saskatchewan Born and raised in Treaty 4 Territory, he holds an Indian Communication Arts Certificate from the First Nations University of Canada and a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism from the University of Regina. Follow him on Twitter @BBellegardeCBC CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says First Nations communities look to marijuana industry for economic opportunities Pot to the people: Sask. cannabis retailers pleased with provincial government's plan Sask. liquor vendors want in on pot sales Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now