Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Fishermen, politicians discuss proposed Boat Harbour treatment facility A meeting held in New Glasgow, N.S., gave fishermen's associations a chance to express concerns on a new effluent treatment facility that Northern Pulp plans to construct by 2020. Social Sharing 'Unless they're going to build something the fishermen can accept, they're in for a battle' CBC · Posted: Nov 05, 2017 5:34 PM AT | Last Updated: November 5, 2017 Northern Pulp must secure environmental approvals and build a new waste water treatment plant by January 2020. (Jeorge Sadi/CBC) A meeting held in New Glasgow, N.S., Sunday morning gave fishermen's associations a chance to express concerns about a proposed waste water treatment plant the Northern Pulp Mill could be building. The company has not yet sent a formal proposal to the province, but it must secure environmental approvals and build a new effluent treatment facility plant by January 2020. "We heard some real concerns," said Central Nova MP Sean Fraser, who was at the meeting. "The fishermen are obviously interested in protecting the local fishery, as am I. There was a lot of people who were emotionally connected to the industry because it's their livelihood and was the livelihood of generations before them." Northern Pulp submits plans to replace notorious Boat Harbour facility Nova Scotia government seeking proposals for cleanup of Boat Harbour Northern Pulp's initial plan would see mill waste water, up to 75,000 cubic metres daily, handled through an activated sludge treatment system. The effluent would be aerated and settled in a large tank on the mill property. Treated effluent would then be sent to a new submerged marine outflow for discharge into the Northumberland Strait. 'They're in for a battle' Prior to the meeting, Ronald Heighton, the president of the Northumberland Fishermen's Association, said he hoped the government officials — which included the Nova Scotia Environment Minister Iain Rankin, PC Pictou West MLA Karla MacFarlane and Fraser — would offer more insight into Northern Pulp's proposal. "Unless they're going to build something the fishermen can accept, they're in for a battle," said Heighton, who was unable to attend the meeting due to a prior commitment. "It's a large volume of fresh water they release. How and when and where they're going to release it is what we want to know and of course we want to know the contents of what's coming out of it too," said Heighton. Closed meeting The meeting between government officials and different fishermen's associations was closed to the media. Rankin sent CBC a statement saying the environment is his "main focus." "I was pleased to have the opportunity to attend this important meeting with the community and stakeholders today and hear their concerns. Any decisions made will be based on science," the statement said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Northern Pulp submits plans to replace notorious Boat Harbour facility Nova Scotia government seeking proposals for cleanup of Boat Harbour Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now