Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba 'Foolish not to': Manitoba First Nations want in on legal pot sales Three Manitoba First Nations are joining forces to help establish a cannabis distribution network in the province. Social Sharing Jobs, economic development an opportunity not to be missed say 3 chiefs, teaming with National Access Cannbis Jillian Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Dec 15, 2017 9:53 AM CT | Last Updated: December 15, 2017 Mark Goliger of National Access Cannabis (left), celebrates the partnership with Chief Christian Sinclair, Chief Glenn Hudson and Chief Dennis Meeches. (John Einarson/CBC) Three Manitoba First Nations are joining forces to help establish a cannabis distribution network in the province. Opaskwayak Cree Nation, Long Plain First Nation, and Peguis First Nation are banding together with National Access Cannabis, a health-care service provider that helps patients access medical cannabis through a licensed producer. Manitoba First Nation makes major investment in pot company Long Plain Chief Dennis Meeches said cannabis is an economic opportunity for First Nations.  "Although the cannabis industry might not be the saviour for our First Nations, Indigenous people, it will go a long way in helping provide sustainable development in the years to come," he said. "Our people need to work. We need to lift our people out of poverty ... the struggle for economic independence is real." NAC and the three First Nations are finalizing a proposal to be one of the province's licenced retailers.  National Access Cannabis hopes to open stores on First Nations and urban reserves on July 1. (CBC)OCN Chief Christian Sinclair said if they get the green light, all locations will open simultaneously on July 2. He said OCN will open a NAC store in the Otineka Mall.  The plan is to open up shop on urban reserve land and on First Nations, which will also create jobs. Long Plain hopes to have three locations: at the Madison Reserve in St. James, at its urban reserve in Portage la Prairie and in its community. "The No. 1 question we are getting from our young people is jobs," said Meeches. "So that is where we need to put a lot of our effort into, strengthen our economy going forward. We would be really foolish not to be involved in this particular economy." Peguis Chief Glenn Hudson didn't specify future locations but said land at Kapyong, Assiniboia Downs and a number of locations around Winnipeg is all on the table.  "We want to look at the cultivation, the distribution and the retail," said Hudson. "I think us as First Nations should have that ability to partake in all of those sectors of this industry and we should also get a set aside because it is an indigenous product and we are an Indigenous people." All three chiefs would like to see a tax rebate program on cannabis sales, similar to tobacco and gas sold on First Nations land.  "We are lobbying that presently with the federal government and working with the province on how that will roll out because it is a treaty right as well," said Sinclair. Weed experts wanted: National Access Cannabis looks to expand their team "As far as price is concerned, it is definitely our plan to work with the province and to work with the control board of the province of Manitoba to figure out pricing, as it is our plan to buy from the control board at this point," said NAC CEO Mark Goliger. He said NAC should find out from the province if their joint proposal is successful by the end of January. Goliger said more First Nations partners will be announced in the coming weeks. 3 Manitoba First Nations part of bid to sell legal pot CBC News Manitoba3 years ago 1:30Three Manitoba First Nations are joining forces to help establish a cannabis distribution network in the province. 1:30 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Manitoba First Nation makes major investment in pot company Weed experts wanted: National Access Cannabis looks to expand their team Polar bear capital of the world debating sale of legalized marijuana Manitoba lone holdout on federal pot tax plan Pot in Pembina: Southern Manitoba communities want uniform approach to sale of cannabis Manitobans will be able to buy pot online, but can't grow at home under new legislation Ban on home-grown pot: prudent safety measure or nonsensical tax grab? Brandon civil servants urge city to greenlight sale of weed External Links National Access Cannabis Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now