Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Foreign-trained physicians in N.S. want skills assessment Foreign-trained specialists living in Halifax say it's 'humiliating' that there is no program to assess their skills and allow them to work in the field they've spent decades of their lives in. Social Sharing No program exists for foreign-trained physicians to prove their skills in Nova Scotia Carolyn Ray · CBC News · Posted: Oct 25, 2017 6:00 AM AT | Last Updated: October 25, 2017 Dr. Layla Abouellail worked as an obstetrician-gynecologist in Sydney in 2006 and in 2010. (CBC) comments Foreign-trained specialists living in Halifax say it's "humiliating" that there is no program to assess their skills and allow them to work in the field they've spent decades of their lives in. Dr. Layla Abouellail's name will look familiar to some women in Cape Breton because the obstetrician-gynecologist worked in Sydney in 2006 and in 2010. These days, Abouellail can be found just down the street from Halifax's main hospitals. She runs Mom-2-Bee, an entertainment ultrasound clinic for women who want to see 3D images of their babies. She chose that path because it is connected to her career.  'I feel humiliated' "It's not fully satisfying for me after I worked in obstetrics all these years. But it is better than nothing," she said.  Her husband, Dr. Amr Nassrat, was a trained obstetrician-gynecologist in Kuwait, but his Halifax colleagues know him as a real estate investor and landlord. "I feel humiliated," he said of not being able to work in his field. "It's not just surprised, it is more than that." Dr. Amr Nassrat, Dr. Layla Abouellail's husband, was also a trained obstetrician-gynecologist in Kuwait. But his Halifax colleagues know him as a real estate investor and landlord. (CBC) Their journey began in 2006, when Abouellail was first brought to Sydney on a two month locum — a temporary position to help fill a gap. At the end of that term, she said she was offered a permanent job, but turned it down because her family was in the Middle East. No defined licence Four years later, the obstetrician-gynecologist was back in Sydney for a month. But at the end of her term, she received surprising news. She said the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia told her they were mistaken in granting her a defined licence because she was missing a specific certificate. Without it, she could no longer work in Nova Scotia. "I feel frustrated actually, and I feel sorry for the patients as well," said Abouellail. "When I worked in Sydney, I met patients who are bleeding, and they needed intervention like a hysterectomy or surgery and they cannot get onto the list because of the long waiting time." Abouellail was mostly trained in Kuwait but spent some time in Belfast and is a fellow of the Royal College of the United Kingdom. The problem is her timing. She finished work there in 1992. Five years later, the CSST — a special certificate program — was created, she said, and it's the one document she needs to be allowed to work in Nova Scotia. Shared frustrations Abouellail's frustrations with trying to work in the province come on the heels of German physician Dr. Erik Steffen voicing similar sentiments. Steffen, an anesthesiologist, wanted to move to Nova Scotia with his family but was unable to get a licence because the province does not currently have a program to assess foreign-trained physicians who come from outside pre-approved jurisdictions. German physician Dr. Erik Steffen (right), an anesthesiologist who wanted to move to Nova Scotia, was unable to get a licence to practise in the province. (Wendy Martin/CBC) German doctor frustrated by rules that prevent him from practising in N.S. While Abouellail was here the second time, she and her husband decided to try to move to Canada. Nassrat said he also applied to work in the province, but was denied. "It was a rejection from the beginning," he said. But unlike his wife, he was not willing to fight the system. He retired and immigrated to Canada with their children. "I lost huge interest in doing that because of the huge difficulties. I've seen it all around, I've seen it in my wife, so I decided to keep myself busy in real estate. I'm happy with that. I'm not complaining." Abouellail, however, was determined to keep working. Obstetricians struggle with $30K increase for insurance St. Martha's Regional Hospital hit with obstetrician shortage Emails from 2011 provided by the doctor show she was offered a three- to six-month clinical assessment at the IWK through the College of Physicians and Surgeons. She was told the assessment could come with a fee of about $15,000, which she was happy to pay.  But the offer eventually disappeared. She waited months, and then years for word on when it was to begin, but it never did. In 2014, she received an email from a physician at the IWK that said no such program existed and there were no clear criteria for assessment. Dr. Layla Abouellail runs Mom-2-Bee, an entertainment ultrasound clinic for women who want to see 3D images of their babies. She chose that path because it is connected to her career. (CBC) At that point, Abouellail gave up. After years of moving around the Middle East and Europe, they had finally found a place to call home. She joined her family in Canada and set up her ultrasound shop. "I go back to Kuwait every few months just to practise medicine because I cannot lose my touch and I cannot lose my expertise that I have gained over 33 years." National program coming The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia won't comment on her case, citing confidentiality requirements.  It said a national program that would test the skills of foreign-trained doctors should be established by the end of this year at Dalhousie University. The practice-ready assessment has been tested in other provinces but it mostly involves family physicians, not specialists.  The college did not respond to further questions from the CBC. Specialist shortages In the meantime, Abouellail said it's frustrating to see stories about shortages of specialists.  In 2015, St. Martha's Regional Hospital in Antigonish could not deliver babies because of an obstetrician shortage on two occasions. Abouellail says she would have eagerly helped if she could get certified in this province. She's willing to pay any cost to have her skills assessed and cover insurance so she can get back to work. She and her husband agree that a program like that would attract a number of specialists to a region that is struggling to recruit. "I would be very happy to work anywhere in Nova Scotia," she said. "I'm actually waiting for them to be desperate again and someone will tell them, 'Layla is here, try to contact her.'" Nova Scotia's Clinician Assessment for Practice Program cancelled About the Author Carolyn Ray Videojournalist Carolyn Ray is a videojournalist who has reported out of three provinces and two territories, and is now based in Halifax. You can reach her at Carolyn.Ray@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories German doctor frustrated by rules that prevent him from practising in N.S. Obstetricians struggle with $30K increase for insurance St. Martha's Regional Hospital hit with obstetrician shortage Nova Scotia's Clinician Assessment for Practice Program cancelled Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now