Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Canada Former Saskatoon cops appeal conviction for leaving aboriginal man out in cold Two former Saskatoon police officers are appealing their conviction for unlawful confinement of an inebriated Aboriginal man. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 20, 2003 11:05 PM ET | Last Updated: January 21, 2003 A panel of judges has reserved its decision in the appeal Monday of two former Saskatoon police officers who were convicted of unlawful confinement. Ken Munson and Dan Hatchen were sentenced to eight months in jail in December 2001, after driving an inebriated aboriginal man to the edge of the city and abandoning him in freezing temperatures. FROM DEC. 7, 2001: Former Saskatoon police officers sentenced to eight months They went before the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal seeking a new trial or, failing that, reduced sentences. "We believe we have grounds for an appeal," said Morris Bodnar, their lawyer. He argued that trial Judge Eugene Scheibel failed to properly instruct the jury about the powers of police officers. They acted legally when they drove Daryl Night to the outskirts of the city. Bodnar also argued that Scheibel should have moved the trial out of the city so the officers could have been tried by an impartial jury. When he convicted them, Scheibel said: "The accused demonstrated a flagrant disregard for the life, safety and well-being of the complainant." Munson and Hatchen have been out on bail since they were convicted. Their case was one of several that led the Saskatchewan government to set up the Commission on First Nations and Mtis Peoples and Justice Reform in 2001. FROM JAN. 17, 2003: Aboriginals may be paid to investigate police Last week, it recommended the government pay for an aboriginal group to investigate complaints against the police. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now