Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Former Spudco investors plan ethanol plant Some of the same investors who sued the Saskatchewan government over the failed Spudco potato development say they have finalized plans for a $50-million ethanol plant near Lucky Lake. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 12, 2006 10:14 AM CT | Last Updated: October 12, 2006 Some of the same investors who sued the Saskatchewan government over the failed Spudco potato development say they have finalized plans for a $50-million ethanol plant near Lucky Lake. The plant would use waste potatoes as well as locally grown wheat and corn. Spudco was the government/private sectorjoint venture set up in the mid-1990s to grow and store potatoes. When it failed, taxpayers were on the hook for more than $30 million. One group of investors sued the province and won a $5.7-million settlement. Now they've decided to reinvest the money in ethanol production. About 40 per cent of the potatoes grown around Lake Diefenbaker are considered waste. The ethanol plant would use those spuds, as well as wheat. One of the investors, Mark Langefeld, said the plant would be unique not only because it would use potatoes, but because it will make natural gas from its own waste. The plan also calls for a supply guarantee, either by buying farmland outright, or entering into long-term leases and contracts with local farmers. All the material needed to produce 50 million litres of ethanol a year could be obtained within 90 kilometres of the plant, Langefeld said. An announcement of a start date for construction is expected in February. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now