Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Former AFN national chief moves into medicinal marijuana business A former national chief of the Assembly of First Nations has moved into the medicinal marijuana business. Social Sharing Phil Fontaine is now the lead of Indigenous Roots, a medicinal cannabis company CBC News · Posted: Dec 06, 2016 10:29 PM CT | Last Updated: December 7, 2016 Former national chief of the Assembly of First Nations, Phil Fontaine, has moved into the medicinal marijuana business. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) A former national chief of the Assembly of First Nations has moved into the medicinal marijuana business. Phil Fontaine, who was also previously the grand chief of the Assembly of Manitoba Chiefs, is now the lead of Indigenous Roots, a medicinal cannabis company. "Our primary interest here of course is business opportunities, job creation, it's about the Indigenous economy, job opportunities, and it's about training," Fontaine said. Medical marijuana patients can grow 'limited amount' of cannabis at home under new laws Medical marijuana patients using Health Canada licences to sell pot illegally The goal of the company is to work cooperatively with First Nations towards building and operating licensed facilities and providing medical cannabis to First Nations patients. To reach that goal, Indigenous Roots partnered with Cronos Group, a cannabis company that already operates two wholly-owned licensed producer facilities — one in Ontario and the other in British Columbia. "It's about doing whatever is necessary to make a difference in terms of ensuring that Indigenous people have access to quality products when it comes to medical cannabis and that they are able to access good service," Fontaine said. "Because when we look at the Indigenous community, I mean it's an under-served community and so our approach is to ensure that we are able to deliver good service to our people." Through the partnership, Indigenous roots will be able to quickly enter the medicinal marijuana market, Fontaine said. The flagship Indigenous Roots facility will be located in British Columbia at Cronos' In The Zone Produce facility in the Okanagan Valley. Medical cannabis producers jockey for top spot as legalization for recreational use looms Federal marijuana legislation to be introduced in spring 2017, Philpott says Cronos CEO Michael Gorenstein said the partnership will benefit everyone involved. "As we started serving the landscape we really saw that there wasn't a lot of involvement of the Indigenous community and we reached out and tried to find someone influential that could really help us reach the under-served group," Gorenstein said. "Phil Fontaine to us is really the perfect guy." Gorenstein said they hope to expand and license additional facilities on First Nations reserves in the future. However, the initial roll out won't happen until Spring 2017. When asked about concerns surrounding addictions, Fontaine added the partners are very sensitive about the issue. "We are certainly not going to do anything that contributes to addictions. I, for certain, understand the huge challenges our community faces about addictions, but this is clearly not about that," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Cannabis for canines? Medicinal pot products a growing trend for Toronto pet owners Medical cannabis producers jockey for top spot as legalization for recreational use looms Cannabis to be tested in kids with severe epilepsy Feature This small Alberta village could soon be home to the world's largest marijuana factory Tuesday's vote saw more U.S. states legalize pot: Why Canada could benefit Trailer Park Boys and Organigram partner in pot products What's in your pot? Marketplace tests today's weed Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now