Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Friends of Neil Stonechild mark 25 years since his death A special feast will happen today to mark 25 years since Neil Stonechild froze to death on the outskirts of Saskatoon. Social Sharing Neil Stonechild froze to death on the outskirts of Saskatoon on Nov. 25, 1990 CBC News · Posted: Nov 25, 2015 6:00 AM CT | Last Updated: November 25, 2015 comments A special feast will happen today to mark 25 years since Neil Stonechild froze to death on the outskirts of Saskatoon. His death led to an RCMP investigation, a judicial inquiry, and the firing of the two police officers who last had contact with the 17-year-old boy.  "I just wanted to be able to give Neil, to be able to honour him and his contribution to Saskatoon. His life and his legacy that have been left behind because of his tragic passing," said Jason Roy, who was with Stonechild the night he died. The feast will take place at St. Thomas Wesley Church on 20th Street and Avenue H. Roy said the feast will serve traditional foods like elk, deer and moose. It will be a chance for people to offer prayers and share their stories.   "It's definitely a milestone," Roy said. "I woke up this morning thinking, 'OK today's the 24th. My morning 25-years-ago started so much differently than where I'm at now." Jason Roy last saw Neil Stonechild in the back of a police cruiser. He is helping to organize a feast on the 25th anniversary of Stonechild's death to honour his friend's life. (CBC) Judicial inquiry into Stonechild's death Stonechild's mother, Stella Bignell, testified at the inquiry, which began in February 2003.  She shared her son's last words in her testimony. "He come and hugged me, he said I'm gonna be fine Mom, he said. I'll see you later, he said. I can't phone you because there's no phone there, he told me. And he come and kissed me and he left." Bignell said she never saw him again.  Police were called later that night to Confederation Park where Stonechild and Jason Roy were allegedly drunk and causing a disturbance. Roy, who was 16 at the time, told the inquiry he last saw Stonechild screaming for help in a police cruiser. He said he thinks about what happened every year on the anniversary of that night. "It replays over in my mind a lot." Stonechild's frozen body was found in a field near 57th Street on Nov. 29.  A decade went by, before two other indigenous men died under similar circumstances. The deaths were suspected of being linked to an alleged police practice called "starlight tours" where officers would drop off intoxicated people on the edges of town so they could sober up by walking. The province ordered a commission of inquiry into Stonechild's death. The judicial inquiry ruled police had botched the investigation because they either knew or suspected fellow officers were involved. Officers Larry Hartwig and Brad Senger were fired but they were never criminally charged. The former officers maintain to this day that they did not have Neil Stonechild in their cruiser that night. Remembering Neil Stonechild Jeff Crowe was good friends with Neil Stonechild as a teenager. He said he always thinks of his late friend on the anniversary of his death. (CBC) Jeff Crowe, who was Stonechild's best friend as a teenager, said he remembers him on this day.  "Especially if it is really, really cold and windy, I always think about him that night. And what he was going through that night." Crowe is a well-respected artist now. He is convinced he too would have died if he'd been with Stonechild that night.  "It's very difficult to live here you know. Because everywhere I go, there's always a memory of him, you know, like he's still here," he said. Jeff "Bluesky" Crowe puts a symbol on each piece of artwork that is inspired by Neil Stonechild. (CBC) Crowe puts a symbol on each of his works that is inspired by Stonechild. "There was something about him. Like everybody wanted to be around him. He was always the centre of attention."  Crowe said he also thinks of Stonechild when he's painting. "There's always a connection there, and I know that he's listening to me when I'm painting. I know that he's there." He said he hopes the feast is a way to honour his friend. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error External Links Commission of Inquiry into the death of Neil Stonechild Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now