Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon From potatoes to pot: former Spudco facility to grow marijuana Some new life is being breathed into a massive potato facility once owned by the Saskatchewan government. Social Sharing United Greeneries says potato facility is perfect for growing marijuana, hopes to start production this year David Shield · CBC News · Posted: Feb 07, 2018 12:41 PM CT | Last Updated: June 4, 2018 A facility once owned by failed Sask. government potato venture Spudco will now grow marijuana. (File pictures) Some new life is being breathed into a massive potato facility once owned by the Saskatchewan government. In the 1990s, the provincial government spent millions of dollars trying to develop the provincial potato industry before abandoning the plan completely. Now, Vancouver-based United Greeneries plans to open a marijuana facility in a massive 60,000 square foot facility once owned by Spudco in Lucky Lake, roughly 130 kilometres southwest of Saskatoon. "It's an ideal facility for marijuana growing," said company spokesperson Colin Clancy. "I think there was about $4 million of concrete put into the facility alone." Regina police hand out warning letters to city's pot shops SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says Sask. First Nation says it's ready to challenge province's pot jurisdiction The company is in the process of receiving final regulatory approval from the federal government and could receive it by the fall. United Greeneries already has multiple sites producing in British Columbia. This facility in Lucky Lake, Sask. will be producing marijuana instead of potatoes. (CNW Group/Harvest One Cannabis) "Preference is given to those who were already existing license holders," said Clancy. "We've already proven that we can do it." The company also plans to build extra modular buildings on the property, potentially building an indoor facility with 80,000 square feet of growing space. The company could spend as much as $15 million to get the space ready. If everything goes according to plan, the Lucky Lake facility will create 12,000 kg of dried marijuana every year. Potato lawsuit will cost taxpayers millions Former Spudco investors plan ethanol plant Government in more hot water over Spudco allegations The provincial government lost $28 million dollars from the failed Spudco venture, and spent an additional $9 million to settle a lawsuit associated with Spudco filed by investors and creditors. Among other problems, potatoes grown by the venture turned black when fried. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now