Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia German doctor frustrated by rules that prevent him from practising in N.S. A German doctor says he's frustrated by Nova Scotia regulations that prevent him from moving to this province to practice. Social Sharing Licensing body says qualifications not recognized Wendy Martin · CBC News · Posted: Oct 19, 2017 7:00 AM AT | Last Updated: October 19, 2017 German anesthesiologist Erik Steffen and his Cape Breton-born wife Julie and their children are vacationing in Wreck Cove. (Wendy Martin/CBC) A German doctor says he's frustrated by Nova Scotia regulations that prevent him from moving to this province to practise. Erik Steffen, 38, is an anesthesiologist. His wife, Julie, grew up in Wreck Cove, Cape Breton. The Steffens want to move to Nova Scotia to raise their two sons, aged four and two, but Steffen says he cannot get a licence from the Nova Scotia College of Physicians and Surgeons. "It's silly," said Steffen. "They make it so hard for us to come over here. I don't think the system in Germany is worse than Canada. It should be possible to transfer more easily." Recruitment efforts lure 16 doctors to Cape Breton Lots of work Julie Steffen said it "makes her sad" when she hears stories about the doctor shortages in the province. She said the family desperately wants to stay, and her husband would have no trouble getting a job. "In fact, different doctors in Antigonish said they would take him; in Halifax, they said they would take him, but they can't hire him," she said.  The Nova Scotia Health Authority currently has several vacancies for anesthesiologists, in Halifax, Truro, Amherst and Bridgewater. Health minister promises more flexibility for doctors setting up practices Lacks certification Steffen does not qualify for a medical licence in Nova Scotia because his qualifications are not recognized at a national level by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. Germany is not one of the 29 jurisdictions that qualify for Royal College certification. The Steffens say some provinces will allow uncertified specialists to practise under provisional licences while working toward that certification, but in Nova Scotia, that's not the case. Julie and Erik Steffen want to raise their family in Nova Scotia. (Wendy Martin/CBC) "What I worry about most is public safety," said Dr. Gus Grant, the registrar of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia. Grant couldn't comment specifically on Erik Steffen or his qualifications. He said the college is well aware of the pressures of underserviced communities, but that Nova Scotia rigorously follows the Royal College standards, which set the threshold for physician qualifications. Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area "What I am most concerned about is licensing physicians who cannot meet the standards expected of physicians." Heading back The Steffens, who are vacationing in Cape Breton this month, are making plans to return to Germany. "My boys are going to start school soon," said Julie Steffen, "and once they do, probably we're just going to end up staying there and not coming back. It doesn't look like anything is going to change." MLA Tim Houston, the Progressive Conservative finance critic, has been in touch with the Steffens, and says the situation just doesn't make sense. "I just hear roadblocks that are getting in the way of common sense," he said. Houston says Nova Scotia should follow the lead of other jurisdictions where international physicians can live and practise while working toward certification.  "Other provinces have figured it out. We should figure it out as well." Grant said nationally, various jurisdictions, including the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia, have worked together to develop a blueprint to analyze the qualifications of international medical graduates. He says, though, it will be up to individual provinces to adopt the blueprint and put it into practice. Northern Cape Breton fears imminent health-care crisis with loss of doctor Departed Cape Breton doctor wants recruiters to consider whole family CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now