Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Gord Wyant welcomed as new education minister, promises 'new relationship' with Sask. teachers After Gord Wyant’s appointment as minister of education, the Saskatchewan Teachers’ Federation president expressed his excitement, saying Wyant listens to teachers. Social Sharing Sask. Teachers' Federation president says Wyant listens to teachers, seems to want to make a difference CBC News · Posted: Feb 03, 2018 1:15 PM CT | Last Updated: February 3, 2018 Gord Wyant, left, with Saskatoon Southeast MLA Don Morgan at the Sask. Party leadership convention on Jan. 27. Wyant, who lost the leadership race to Scott Moe, was appointed education minister on Friday. (Alex Brockman/CBC) The Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation is welcoming the province's new education minister, saying Gord Wyant "legitimately does seem to want" to make a difference for education in the province. Wyant was appointed to the education file during the cabinet shuffle Friday, when Scott Moe was officially sworn in as the province's new premier. Wyant replaces Bronwyn Eyre, who raised concerns as education minister for comments she made on treaty education. She was given the energy and resources portfolio on Friday, and named minister responsible for SaskWater and SaskEnergy. 'A very difficult decision': Premier Scott Moe unveils new cabinet Teachers' Federation raises concerns about Sask. education minister's comments on Indigenous education Moe won the leadership of the Saskatchewan Party last weekend, defeating four other candidates for the job — including Wyant. "As a [leadership] candidate, Gord Wyant seemed to really listen to teachers and get to know the issues that are pressuring classrooms these days," said STF president Patrick Maze. "Unfortunately, politicians sometimes get an image that they're going through the paces. That doesn't seem the case with Gord Wyant." During the Saskatchewan Party's leadership campaign, a $30-million education funding boost was promised by Wyant to allow 400 more educational assistants to be hired. Sask. educators look to Scott Moe to keep $30M campaign promise on education Wyant told reporters Friday he wants to see that $30 million in the province's upcoming budget, and to have the money in future budgets as well. 'Renewed dialogue' Wyant himself says one thing he heard about consistently on the campaign trail was the need for educational assistants. "One of the things we talked about through this campaign, from the very beginning, is creating a new relationship, starting a renewed dialogue with teachers and educators right across this province," Wyant said. We're welcoming Gord Wyant, as the minister, saying 'we're going to restore funding and reverse things and look at education as an investment into our children's future, as opposed to trying to fix the budget with it.'- Patrick Maze, STF president As for the opposition, interim NDP leader Nicole Sarauer says it's too early to make a judgment on Wyant's appointment. "Actions speak louder than words, and we heard a lot of words during the leadership campaign. Now they have to put some dollars and some actions into where their mouths were, so to speak," Sarauer said. She also said that although he wasn't education minister at the time, Wyant was at the decision-making table during the last budget, which saw significant cuts to the department. After the $30-million funding promise, Maze is hopeful Wyant will be a good advocate for education. "We're welcoming Gord Wyant, as the minister, saying 'we're going to restore funding and reverse things and look at education as an investment into our children's future, as opposed to trying to fix the budget with it,'"Maze said.   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'A very difficult decision': Premier Scott Moe unveils new cabinet Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now