Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Government in more hot water over Spudco allegations The Opposition says there is one more reason for a public inquiry into the provincial government's failure in the potato business. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 20, 2004 4:30 PM CT | Last Updated: October 20, 2004 The Opposition says there is one more reason for a public inquiry into the provincial government's failure in the potato business. The Saskatchewan Party says plaintiffs who were suing the government raised another disturbing allegation Tuesday. One of the investors involved says a private sector partner never intended to put any money towards building potato sheds. RELATED ? Potato lawsuit will cost taxpayers millions ? Calvert orders probe into Spudco deal The government has always maintained it had an arrangement with the company, Conforce, in which Conforce would put forward 51 per cent of the money, and the government would put up the remainder. The government says that relationship changed at the last minute, and the province had to cover the entire amount. But investor Mark Langefeld says he spoke with Conforce representatives and they never intended to put up any money. "We were suckered," says Langefeld. Peter Prebble, the minister responsible for Spudco, says he doesn't know the details of early discussions between the government and Conforce. He says people deserve to know if the government ever had a reason to believe it had a private partner, but he doesn't think it is worth a public inquiry to find out. "Are we really saying that we want to spend $2.5 million getting an answer to that particular question?" asks Prebble. "I really think that that would be unwise." Prebble says the government has already apologized for misleading the public about the nature of the potato partnership. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now