Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Government says review of how CFS system handled Tina Fontaine will be released A review of how child welfare workers handled Tina Fontaine before the teenager died and was dumped in the Red River is almost finished, but it may not be made public. Social Sharing Current Manitoba law will not allow children's advocate's report to be made public; new bill would change that Steve Lambert · The Canadian Press · Posted: Feb 26, 2018 7:11 PM CT | Last Updated: February 27, 2018 Tina Fontaine's body was pulled from the Red River in 2014. (Peggy Lam/CBC) The Manitoba government committed late Monday to releasing a report into how child welfare workers dealt with Tina Fontaine before the teenager disappeared, died and was dumped in the Red River. A law that forbids the provincial children's advocate from publicly releasing special investigation reviews into child deaths will be changed very soon, Families Minister Scott Fielding's office said. "The minister commits to releasing it and says proclamation (of a new law) is imminent," Fielding's press secretary, Andrea Slobodian, wrote in an email. Tina Fontaine ran away from a Winnipeg hotel where she was being housed in August 2014. She was 15 years old. The Indigenous girl's body was found nine days later in the water, wrapped in a duvet cover and weighed down by rocks. The man accused of killing her, Raymond Cormier, was found not guilty last week. Tina Fontaine met social workers, police and health-care workers — but no one kept her safe Jury finds Raymond Cormier not guilty in death of Tina Fontaine 'This is love for Tina': Crowd marches for change in honour of Tina Fontaine in Winnipeg Daphne Penrose, the province's children's advocate, said her office has reviewed files and looked at what services were provided to Tina. "The investigation is almost complete. We do have a little bit more work to do on it," Penrose said Monday. Tina's body was found in Winnipeg's Red River, wrapped in a duvet cover and weighted down with rocks, on Aug. 17, 2014. (Winnipeg Police Service) But under current Manitoba law, Penrose cannot release her findings publicly. A bill passed in the legislature last year would allow her to do so, but the provincial government has yet to enact it. Earlier Monday, the Progressive Conservative government would not commit to a time frame for enacting the law. Children's advocate to look into CFS care Cormier's second-degree murder trial heard details of the final weeks of Tina's life, but did not delve into the way social workers handled her case. Tina was raised in a stable home with her great-aunt, Thelma Favel, on the Sagkeeng First Nation, 120 kilometres northeast of Winnipeg. She left to visit her mother in Winnipeg at the end of June 2014 and became an exploited youth. FeatureTimeline: From Tina Fontaine's arrival in Winnipeg to Raymond Cormier's arrest Everyone must 'confront the shame and tragedy of our country's racism': Winnipeg mayor Favel called Child and Family Services with concerns about Tina, and Tina ran away repeatedly from a youth shelter and hotels where she was placed. She was last seen leaving a downtown hotel, where she told the private contract worker employed by child welfare that she was going to a shopping centre to meet friends. In a brief written statement, Manitoba's family services department would only say a review of the case by the regional Southern Child and Family Services Authority "found that standards and protocols were met." Daphne Penrose is the Manitoba Children’s Advocate. (Manitoba Children's Advocate) The children's advocate's office, an independent body of the legislature, is expected to delve into more detail in its report. Some Indigenous leaders and opposition politicians are demanding a full public inquiry into the case — a broad, systemic hearing open to the public and media with witnesses testifying under oath. "I think we need to look at ... why this little girl was failed on so many levels and how do we prevent this from happening in the future," said Opposition NDP families critic Bernadette Smith. "I think we need a public inquiry ... because it would highlight the services that were meant to keep (Tina) safe, where they failed, and how things could be different going from here on," said Sheila North, grand chief of Manitoba Keewatinowi Okimakanak, which represents First Nations in the northern part of the province. OpinionJustice denied for Tina Fontaine and Colten Boushie: How their cases illustrate racism in Canadian courts Phoenix Sinclair inquiry commissioner says 'time has come' for progress report The idea of releasing children's advocate reports was recommended by the last public inquiry into the province's child welfare system — a 2013 report on Phoenix Sinclair, a five-year-old girl who was beaten to death by her mother and her mother's boyfriend after social workers closed her file. The inquiry report by retired Justice Ted Hughes urged Manitoba to follow British Columbia in allowing the release of special reports into children's deaths by the advocate. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Tina Fontaine met social workers, police and health-care workers — but no one kept her safe Jury finds Raymond Cormier not guilty in death of Tina Fontaine 'This is love for Tina': Crowd marches for change in honour of Tina Fontaine in Winnipeg Feature Timeline: From Tina Fontaine's arrival in Winnipeg to Raymond Cormier's arrest Everyone must 'confront the shame and tragedy of our country's racism': Winnipeg mayor Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now