Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Green thumbs-up for Victoria's pot dispensary rules A Canadian Association of Medical Cannabis Dispensaries director says new rules for medical marijuana storefronts are close to what operators asked for. Social Sharing Rules say no minors, no advertising, 200-metre buffer from schools and other shops Deborah Wilson · CBC News · Posted: Sep 22, 2016 9:41 PM PT | Last Updated: September 23, 2016 About 40 cannabis dispensaries are estimated to be operating in Victoria as new rules come into effect. (Michael McArthur/CBC) The City of Victoria has joined Vancouver in an unfamiliar role: regulating marijuana storefronts. The Storefront Cannabis Retailer Rezoning Policy received final approval from City Council Thursday night. As of Sept. 23, all pot dispensaries in the capital city must obtain a $5,000 business license and pass a complex rezoning process, at a cost of $7,500, in order to operate legally. Pot shops: Vancouver issues first medical marijuana business license New mall in Victoria sells 'high' quality pot products Victoria drafting bylaw to allow edible pot products Marijuana 'happy hour' prices advertised at pot shop 'It's mostly what dispensaries have asked for' Dieter MacPherson, a board member for the Canadian Association of Medical Cannabis Dispensaries, said the new rules appear fair so far. "Absolutely, compared to Vancouver," MacPherson told On the Island host Gregor Craigie. "By and large it's mostly what dispensaries have asked for, "  The new rules include shorter hours, no on-site consumption, age restrictions and a ban on advertising. Dispensaries also must be at least 200 metres from schools.  The most contentious requirement is a 200-metre buffer between each marijuana dispensary. Many of the approximately 40 marijuana storefronts currently operating within city limits are closer than that. Victoria Mayor Lisa Helps and council approved dispensary regulations Thursday night. (Facebook) If more than one dispensary meets the zoning requirements within a 200-metre area, the first through the rezoning process is likely to succeed, Victoria Mayor Lisa Helps said. "It is a matter of which dispensary owner is organized and through the door most quickly." As the new regulations come into effect, MacPherson said dispensary operators want clear interpretations of the new guidelines. "Things like storing valuables in a safe at night," MacPherson said. "What's the definition of a safe? Dispensaries sell edible products that are quite high volume and they have to be refrigerated." "So do you have to put the refrigerator in the safe or do you have to make the fridge into a safe?" he asked. Nonetheless, MacPherson is optimistic about the new policy. "In Vancouver there have been quite a few court challenges against the City and there's also injunctions from the City against those who haven't come into compliance," he said. "We're hoping to avoid that in Victoria; it's been a very integrative process, holistic. Everybody's been involved." With files from On the Island. To listen to the interview with Dieter MacPherson on CBC Radio's On the Island, click: New Victoria marijuana shop rules fair, cannabis advocate says To listen to the interview with Victoria Mayor Lisa Helps on CBC Radio's On the Island, click: Victoria mayor expects buffer zones to reduce marijuana dispensary numbers CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories New mall in Victoria sells 'high' quality pot products Pot shops: Vancouver issues first medical marijuana business licence Victoria drafting bylaw to allow edible pot products Marijuana 'happy hour' prices advertised at pot shop External Links City of Victoria: Regulating Medical Marijuana-Related Businesses in Victoria Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now