Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Calgary Group wants to grow number of women in cannabis business Entrepreneurs will be looking to cash in on the marijuana market should the federal government make the move to legalize it as promised, and Alison McMahon is hoping many of those will be women. Social Sharing 'It's been largely dominated by men but we're seeing a big shift' CBC News · Posted: Oct 14, 2016 4:58 PM MT | Last Updated: October 17, 2016 Alison McMahon is hosting a mixer at the Rose and Crown pub that aims to bring together women looking to get into the medical marijuana growing industry. (Alison McMahon) Entrepreneurs will be looking to cash in on the marijuana market should the federal government make the move to legalize it as promised, and Alison McMahon is hoping many of those will be women. "Historically, the criminal roots that cannabis has has meant it's been largely dominated by men, but we're seeing a big shift in that," McMahon told the Calgary Eyeopener. "And it's a timing thing. If you think back to prohibition ending with alcohol, when an industry emerged out of that, women were not actively involved in the workplace and businesses the way they are today. Today with the cannabis prohibition ending and this industry really emerging before our eyes, women are positioned beautifully to work in organizations, start their own businesses and be strong participants in this new industry." The Edmonton chapter chair of Women Grow and founder of the consultancy group Cannabis at Work, McMahon is hosting a mixer Friday for women considering getting into growing at the Rose and Crown from 6 to 9 p.m. The event happens ahead of the Hempfest Cannabis Expo, going Saturday and Sunday at the Big Four Building. MORE CALGARY NEWS | Meet Calgary's Games Master, the sheriff of board games MORE CALGARY NEWS | Calgarians get 1st look at plans to revamp area around Inglewood Bird Sanctuary McMahon got started in the medical marijuana industry just over a year ago when her consultancy work opened her eyes to possible problems around future legal use of the drug. "Organizations have typically been zero tolerance when it comes to cannabis and now we see the courts have been clear, employers have a duty to accommodate cannabis patients," she said. "I like to say cannabis is coming to workplaces like a wrecking ball so my focus is on educating employers." With files from the Calgary Eyeopener CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Monthly marijuana cooking class teaches Calgarians to cook with cannabis 'Stoner' Tommy Chong says Canada's pot legislation could set example for U.S. What marijuana legalization could mean for Canada's real estate market Pot profits predicted to soar with legalization on the horizon External Links Hempfest Cannabis Expo website Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now