Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Halfway through her pregnancy, Cape Breton woman still doesn't have a GP A woman in Cape Breton is almost halfway through her second pregnancy and still doesn't know her official due date — in part because she doesn't have a family doctor. Social Sharing Kirsten DeJong has yet to hear her baby's heartbeat, after it has taken months to secure appointment Joan Weeks · CBC News · Posted: Nov 09, 2017 6:10 AM AT | Last Updated: November 9, 2017 Kirsten DeJong is shown in front of her house in rural Cape Breton. (Joan Weeks/CBC) comments A woman in Cape Breton is almost halfway through her second pregnancy and still doesn't know her official due date — in part because she doesn't have a family doctor. Kirsten DeJong said it has taken months of phone calls and pleading just to get an appointment with an obstetrician, which she finally has scheduled for the end of November.   "The only reason I know I'm pregnant is because my belly is growing and I had a positive home-pregnancy test," the 32-year-old said. DeJong, her husband and their first child had moved to the small community of Boularderie, N.S., from Ontario in 2015. They came for a slower pace of life, a shorter commute and cheap real estate.  But DeJong said it never occurred to them to worry about getting health care. 'We really are in a crisis' "I wish I had," she said. "Everyone complained about the health care in Ontario. Hindsight, they have amazing care compared to here. "I wish the Liberal government would accept the fact that we really are in a crisis. If I'm halfway through a pregnancy and I can't even find basic pre-natal care. To say that's not a crisis, it scares me." Hundreds of people attended the forum on the state of healthcare in Cape Breton. Thousands are without a family doctor. (Nic Meloney/CBC) DeJong said she contacted the Nova Scotia Health Authority (NSHA) early on to get her name on the wait-list for a family doctor. Then when she realized she was pregnant, she tried to get a midwife; the nearest one was in Antigonish, about 200 kilometres away.   She tried nurse practitioners next. "No one was taking anybody," said DeJong. "Because with all the retired doctors and doctors leaving, everyone is overbooked." Her next call was to a pre-natal clinic. She was told she needed a referral from a doctor, and they suggested she visit a local emergency room.  Turned down by 40 doctors NSHA spokesperson Greg Boone said a pregnant woman without a family physician can visit a walk-in clinic and get a referral to a family physician who provides low-risk obstetrical care. "There is a group of about nine GPs in the area who provide low-risk obstetrics and one of those would take that patient," he said. Health minister dodges questions on pregnant woman's search for doctor Cape Breton doctors push to regain control of local decisions DeJong said a local clinic did give her a list of doctors, but she couldn't find anyone to take her on. Only one was taking patients, she said, but he wouldn't take her because her name is not near the top of the Nova Scotia wait-list. "I literally called about 40 different doctors," she said. "Nobody has room."  "Physicians are in private practice," said Boone. "And they may have other processes in place in relation to how they take or accept patients." Nervous to stay Now DeJong worries about her pregnancy. "Your biggest concern is you just want to hear that heartbeat. You're concerned until you either hear a heartbeat or you see an ultrasound." A doctor in the emergency room of the Victoria County Memorial Hospital in nearby Baddeck eventually provided a referral to an obstetrician, who initially said she was not taking patients either. But she finally agreed to see DeJong. "My first appointment is at approximately 19 weeks, halfway through my pregnancy." N.S. physician wait-list matches 10 per cent of patients in first year Now DeJong and her husband, who also does not have a doctor, are considering leaving Cape Breton.  "We came here thinking, 'what a great place to raise our family.' It's beautiful. The people are friendly. We could afford to buy a home," she said. "Now, after all of this, I'm nervous to stay." DeJong is a volunteer firefighter in her community. "I see the elderly and these people don't have doctors. There is 80- and 90-year-old people that have health problems and don't have doctors. I don't want to be that person." 'Hemorrhaging' of doctors from Cape Breton must stop, physicians warn Cape Breton doctors unwilling to accept patients who need methadone About the Author Joan Weeks Reporter Joan Weeks has been a reporter with CBC in Sydney for over a decade. Many of her stories are investigative with a focus on government spending and accountability, as well as health and economic issues important to Cape Breton. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Health minister dodges questions on pregnant woman's search for doctor Why young doctors aren't taking over from retiring physicians N.S. physician wait-list matches 10 per cent of patients in first year Departed Cape Breton doctor wants recruiters to consider whole family 'Excessive, unacceptable' ER closures prompt Shelburne rally Loss of foreign doctor program cut at least 40 physicians from N.S. workforce Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now