Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury Health care workers not surprised by number of used needles collected in Sudbury Outreach workers with the Sudbury Youth Action Centre collected 13,000 used needles in November, but that number doesn’t surprise health care workers who help treat addiction in the community. Social Sharing The Sudbury and District Health Unit has distributed more than 1 million needles this year Robin De Angelis · CBC News · Posted: Dec 13, 2017 5:30 AM ET | Last Updated: December 13, 2017 The Sudbury Action Centre for Youth collected 13,000 needles in November, but health care workers say the number isn't really shocking. (Markus Schwabe/CBC) Outreach workers with the Sudbury Youth Action Centre collected 13,000 used needles in November, but that number doesn't surprise health care workers who help treat addiction in the community. "The average person injects multiple times a day, so it shouldn't really be a huge shock," says Dr. Mike Franklyn, an addictions specialist based in Sudbury. Sudbury group responsible for picking up used needles asking public to help find hotspots Franklyn says the frequency of use depends on the drug. Cocaine users can inject themselves up to 15 times a day, while opiates might be used four or six times a day. And if people are using more needles, Franklyn says that's actually a good thing. "It might seem counterintuitive, but it's sort of a good news story. What we don't want is people reusing or sharing needles." Addictions specialist Dr. Mike Franklyn wants to see more funding for exchange programs that provide clean needles. (Angela Gemmill / CBC) Franklyn says more people are using intravenous drugs than ever before, and that increases the risk of infection and disease. He wants to see more funding for exchange programs that provide clean needles, even if that means more of them end up on the streets. "Some individual patients cost a quarter million dollars a year to treat. That buys a lot of needles, if people can get clean needles and educated about which drugs to use and which ones not to," Franklyn says. Intravenous drug use on the rise The Sudbury and District Health Unit currently operates a harm reduction service called The Point, which offers free needles and injection equipment, along with information about safer drug use. Public health nurse Ginette Cyr says the health unit has distributed more than 1 million needles in 2017, more than the previous year. "There has been an increase not just in Sudbury, but across the province." There are currently five needle drop boxes throughout Sudbury, where people can safely discard used needles. (Markus Schwabe/CBC) The health unit currently has a 70 per cent return rate for used needles, but Cyr says they are continuing to educate people to safely throw out their needles at one of five disposal bins in the city. Cyr adds these statistics aren't just about needles — they're about people struggling with addiction. "It's people, what they've lived and what they've experienced. So it's concerning." About the Author Robin De Angelis Robin De Angelis is a multimedia journalist based in southwestern Ontario. She has previously worked as a reporter covering local news in Sudbury. Get in touch on Twitter @RobinElizabethD or by email robin.deangelis@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sudbury group responsible for picking up used needles asking public to help find hotspots Sudbury City Hall City of Greater Sudbury delivers $12K for dirty needle pickup Four new needle disposal bins to be installed in Sudbury Audio Does Sudbury need a safe injection site? 'Yes, we do,' harm reduction advocate says Audio Northern Ontario drug users need safe injection site: outreach nurse Workers scour Sudbury streets for needles Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now