Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Health minister dodges questions on pregnant woman's search for doctor Randy Delorey says the case of a pregnant Cape Breton woman who could not find a family doctor is an exception, and the Liberals' long-term plans to improve health care in the province will make a difference. Social Sharing Randy Delorey says there are no quick fixes for current physician shortage Carolyn Ray · CBC News · Posted: Nov 09, 2017 3:57 PM AT | Last Updated: November 9, 2017 Health Minister Randy Delorey. (Andrew Vaughan/Canadian Press) Nova Scotia's health minister says the case of a pregnant Cape Breton woman who could not find a family doctor is an exception, and the Liberals' long-term plans to improve health care in the province will make a difference. Randy Delorey was bombarded with questions by reporters following a cabinet meeting in Halifax after CBC News reported Thursday morning on Kirsten DeJong's challenges. DeJong said she was turned down by about 40 physicians and had to go to the emergency room to finally get a referral to an obstetrician. She'll see that doctor for the first time nearly halfway through her pregnancy. Halfway through her pregnancy, Cape Breton woman still doesn't have a GP "This isn't, to my knowledge, the norm of situations that takes place in the province," Delorey said. "She's been referred to receive the services that's needed to help along with the pregnancy. At this point, I think it's an important part of the story to recognize." Delorey was asked repeatedly if this was an acceptable level of care. But every time, he avoided a direct response. The Nova Scotia Health Authority "has responded, indicating that there are processes in place to facilitate, to make sure that these individuals get referred to the services that they need going through the pregnancy process," he said. Kirsten DeJong is shown in front of her house in rural Cape Breton. (Joan Weeks/CBC) Delorey also referred to long-term plans that he said will make a difference in tackling the shortage of doctors, including expanding the number of family residency spaces in the province. He said there are no instant solutions. "They don't exist," he said. "What does exist is recognizing that we have to take steps to improve the availability of primary care providers. That includes the steps that we highlight frequently around the residency program, the clerkship program, the work around the collaborative teams." Doctors Nova Scotia has brought forward one possible solution, which would be to open clinics specifically for those with chronic conditions who do not have a family doctor, and could include the treatment of pregnant women. That model was tested in Cape Breton, and Doctors Nova Scotia said it was a success. It would require asking the current slate of family physicians — who have raised concerns about burnout — to spend a day or two a month in a clinic until more physicians can be recruited. 'Excessive, unacceptable' ER closures prompt Shelburne rally Departed Cape Breton doctor wants recruiters to consider whole family Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area NDP Leader Gary Burrill said the government should acknowledge there's a "crisis" and "move on it." He said Delorey's responses don't cut it. "All of these instances make up a pattern," he said. "They're not stories or anecdotes. They're real situations of real people from an overall situation from where the whole situation is breaking down." NDP Leader Gary Burrill. (CBC) Burrill said the Liberals are trying to pass off each health-care story as isolated "pockets" of problems. "At what point do you have so many pockets that you have to acknowledge that these aren't pockets but a whole pair of pants? I think we're way past the pocket stage." But Delorey asked for patience in dealing with a complex situation. "Reported ratios of family primary care availability for residents is actually higher in Nova Scotia than most other provinces across the country," he said. A report by the Canadian Institute for Health Information shows that in 2015, Nova Scotia did have the second highest number of family physicians per 100,000 people in the country, next to Yukon. But there are no updated numbers, and several physicians have either retired or left the province in the last two years. Doctors Nova Scotia estimates 100,000 people in the province do not have a family doctor. About 150 people attended a rally in Shelburne on Sunday concerning frequent closures at the local ER. (Kayla Hounsell/CBC) Delorey also said the benefits of the two-year-old amalgamation of health authorities will also become clearer in the future. He said already patients have been able to access services in other communities where wait-lists are shorter. "I think when people do step back and then look at the situation, many of these challenges that we're working to address to improve our health-care system are consistent from many, many years, they're consistent over time. They're consistent not just in a Nova Scotian context but across the country." Readers who wish to share their story about searching for a physician can contact Carolyn.Ray@cbc.ca. About the Author Carolyn Ray Videojournalist Carolyn Ray is a videojournalist who has reported out of three provinces and two territories, and is now based in Halifax. You can reach her at Carolyn.Ray@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Why young doctors aren't taking over from retiring physicians Loss of foreign doctor program cut at least 40 physicians from N.S. workforce N.S. physician wait-list matches 10 per cent of patients in first year Patient calls for new rules after family doctor retires without notice Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now