Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Health minister promises more flexibility for doctors setting up practices Nova Scotia's health minister said he's hearing about a lack of access to primary health care and the need for specialists. Social Sharing 'We need local people in charge with authority to make local changes,' says Sydney doctor Joan Weeks · CBC News · Posted: Aug 28, 2017 8:27 PM AT | Last Updated: August 28, 2017 Nova Scotia Health Minister Randy Delorey says the province is prepared to be more flexible when it comes to allowing doctors the freedom of practising where they choose. (CBC) Nova Scotia is prepared to be more flexible about where doctors choose to practise in the province, Health Minister Randy Delorey said Monday in Sydney. The minister, who's touring the province to get a sense of local health-care issues, said he's hearing local concerns about lack of access to primary health care and the need for specialists. His first stop on the tour was in Cape Breton, where doctor recruitment has been an especially thorny situation. The province is trying to address health-care shortages in Cape Breton through doctor recruitment and collaborative care clinics, says Nova Scotia Health Minister Randy Delorey. (CBC) Fearing for future of health care, Cape Breton doctors appeal to political parties Speaking with reporters, Delorey said the province is implementing some of the promises it made during the election campaign, particularly around loosening restrictions on where doctors can practise. "We did acknowledge that more flexibility needed to be brought into the system, particularly when it comes to physicians identifying where they want to practise. So that work is underway," Delorey said. Changes welcome Doctors who want to set up a new family practice must receive approval from the Nova Scotia Health Authority first, a system the health authority said helps avoid a concentration of physicians in one area and shortages in other places. Sydney anesthesiologist Dr. Craig Stone welcomes a loosening of the rules. He's one of the doctors who has been lobbying for improved health care in Cape Breton. Sydney anesthesiologist Dr. Craig Stone has been lobbying for improved health care in Cape Breton. (CBC) Cape Breton doctors say medical system is ailing under one health authority "That is wonderful. Physicians will come here," he said. "They'll set up practice in the community they choose and they'll be happy being here. That is an excellent step in the right direction."  Local control Stone said if he had a chance to speak with the minister, he would suggest a return to more local control over health care. He added Cape Breton has been losing health services and specialists. "We need local solutions to our local problems. We need local people in charge with authority to make local changes," he said. "It seems we are losing what we've had." Collaborative care practices could fill some of those gaps, but there will be a transition period, Delorey said. The collaborative care model brings together a variety of health-care professionals, such as family doctors, nurses, nurse practitioners, dietitians and others to provide better care and free up doctors to spend more time with patients who need to see them. And doctor recruitment will be enhanced by adding more residency seats here as well as placements for students who study medicine outside Canada, Delorey said.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Cape Breton doctors say medical system is ailing under one health authority Fearing for future of health care, Cape Breton doctors appeal to political parties Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now