Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury High time to review workplace policies, says drug tester In a few months, cannabis will be legal to purchase, and workplaces are grappling with how to deal with situations where workers may be high on the job. Social Sharing Employers can set guidelines on whether smoking pot is allowed on company premises CBC News · Posted: Mar 13, 2018 4:12 PM ET | Last Updated: March 13, 2018 As marijuana legalization looms in Canada, large and small companies are asking for guidance from the provincial and federal governments on how they should balance employee privacy with safety in the workplace. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) In a few months, cannabis will be legal to purchase, and workplaces are grappling with how to deal with situations where workers may be high on the job. Wayne St. John, with Cann Amm, a firm that performs drug and alcohol testing in northern Ontario, told CBC's Up North that there's a dire need for more information around the workplace. Sudbury doctor says Canada needs to rethink drug policy Sudbury preparing for legal marijuana, retail store "Right now, the province and federal governments have focused on the sale and distribution of cannabis and roadside testing," St. John said. "But [they've] overlooked workplace concerns." But St. John said the government's decision to legalize marijuana shouldn't affect whether the workplace requires drug testing or not. "If there's a safety-sensitive aspect to your workspace, you continue on with testing," he said. "If you're in a position where you don't have a safety-sensitive aspect, then legalization shouldn't lead to that." "It should lead to awareness programs and other approaches, but not testing," he said. Tests can't detect buzzed employees St. John said even if a company has a drug-testing policy in place, the tests still won't determine if an employee is high while on the job. "We don't test for impairment," he said. "We test for a level of substance in an individual's system that leads them to be a safety risk. It's a safety risk mitigation tool."   St. John said his company fields calls from workplaces looking for clarity on how to approach the consumption of cannabis, especially as it relates to medically-issued marijuana. "We get calls asking if employees will be allowed to smoke at work because the province has said it will be allowed in areas where tobacco is allowed," St. John said. "But the Ontario government says you can't consume it in a public workplace," he said. "There's already precedent being set where you can and cannot consume." "Individual workplaces have that ability themselves to say you can not consume cannabis on company premises, similar to alcohol." Some responsibility rests on the worker As for medicinal marijuana, St. John says an employer has the duty to accommodate medical conditions, but that comes with some expectations for the employee. "The individual who claims 'well, marijuana helps me' is different than going through the steps of having a physician authorizing the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes." Overall, St. John said, a solid workplace drug policy is one that stresses communication between workers and their employers. "It's not about impairment, it's about safety," he said. "It's not a witch hunt. [Drug testing] is out there to decrease the potential for workplace incidents, and it's just one small piece of an overall safety program." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now