Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia High-speed internet a 'basic right,' says premier as connection projects announced The Nova Scotia government will spend $1.4 million to connect 5,400 homes and 420 businesses to high-speed internet in the next six months. Social Sharing Taxpayers to spend $1.4M to connect 5,400 homes and 420 businesses in next 6 months Paul Withers · CBC News · Posted: Mar 27, 2017 4:27 PM AT | Last Updated: August 6, 2017 Anthony Organ of Sweetland, N.S., takes the podium at an announcement by the province that it will spend $1.4 million to connect 5,400 homes to high-speed internet. (Paul Withers/CBC) The Nova Scotia government will spend $1.4 million to connect 5,400 homes and 420 businesses to high-speed internet in the next six months. The 22 projects announced Monday are an attempt to address persistent complaints in rural Nova Scotia that download speeds are too slow and internet connections unreliable. "It's frustrating," said Anne Nauss, a businesswoman in the rural community of Sweetland in Lunenburg County. "It's so bad sometimes I'd like to take a shotgun to the tower," added Wendy Nauss, also of Sweetland. Sherry Veinot helps co-ordinate search and rescue in Lunenburg County. She said the internet is so bad outside Bridgewater she could not download an important PDF from St. John Ambulance. All three women — and many more people with similar complaints — were at the nearby Northfield District Fire Hall Monday to hear Premier Stephen McNeil announce funding for projects that will connect nearly two dozen communities to high-speed internet. "Your provincial government is listening, our municipal partners are listening and entrepreneurs are providing solutions for what is a basic right as Nova Scotians and as Canadians and that is access to high-speed internet," McNeil said. Anatomy of a project In the case of Sweetland, the province is providing $75,000 and the Municipality of the District of Lunenburg will contribute $60,000 for the construction of two towers that will deliver high-speed internet to 288 homes. It will also provide WiFi at a community centre or fire hall. The internet service provider, NCS, will be expected to meet service levels when it upgrades to 15 megabits per second, up from the 1.5 Mbps or no connection. Mayor Carolyn Boliver Getson said the municipality is considering Sweetland as a pilot project. "Access to reliable high-speed internet is not a luxury. We cannot afford to leave it to the marketplace. I know too many people who cannot sell their homes because they do not have internet," Bolivar-Getson said. $6M set aside this year Not all of the projects involve building transmission towers. A number will see the installation of fibre optic cable in communities. In November 2016 the McNeil government said it would spend $6 million for small projects like these to bring high-speed internet into rural areas. The Municipal and Community Rural High-Speed Internet Funding Program still has $3.5 million remaining and the Liberal government said more project announcements are pending in the next budget year. The province says the next round of projects will roll out after it releases its long term strategy, a project dubbed "brightstar." The government is also waiting on details from Ottawa's Connect to Innovate program. The internet access event was one of six spending announcements made by Liberal government politicians on Monday. The tempo of spending announcements has ramped up in recent weeks, as the Liberals have seen their polling numbers dip after a dispute with the province's teachers. McNeil said the announcements are not connected to an imminent election call. Atlantic Liberal leaders announce pilot programs for immigration, business growth High-speed solutions sought for rural Nova Scotia internet woes About the Author Paul Withers Reporter Paul Withers is an award-winning journalist whose career started in the 1970s as a cartoonist. He has been covering Nova Scotia politics for more than 20 years. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Atlantic Liberal leaders announce pilot programs for immigration, business growth Federal government spending $500M to expand high-speed Internet to remote communities High-speed solutions sought for rural Nova Scotia internet woes Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now