Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Home-care costs need more monitoring, says AG in new report The province's auditor general says a decade after the last audit of home-care services in Nova Scotia, the government still doesn't know if the hours charged by providers are accurate. Social Sharing Michael Pickup released a report Wednesday on health care Michael Gorman · CBC News · Posted: Nov 22, 2017 8:13 AM AT | Last Updated: November 22, 2017 The government still hasn't implemented recommendations from the last report on home care, says the auditor general. (Shutterstock/Toa55) The province's auditor general says a decade after the last audit of home-care services in Nova Scotia, the government still doesn't know if the hours charged by providers are accurate. Overall, Michael Pickup found there are still eight outstanding recommendations from the 2008 audit, all of which were accepted at the time by government. "This is too much time and I don't think that's acceptable," Pickup said in a video posted on his office's website on Wednesday as part of his latest report. Government lacks plan to deliver mental health services for all, says AG Nova Scotia doctor shortage plan hampered by poor communications, says AG Speaking to reporters in Halifax, Pickup said one of his biggest concerns about the lack of checks and balances is that it makes the system susceptible to fraud. He was also "concerned and troubled" by the number of outstanding recommendations from the past audit. "Those controls have not been fixed yet," he said. "Of course I think we need to be concerned." Better monitoring needed The report includes a chapter on managing home-care contracts, something the government spends about $140 million a year on. There are 20 providers across the province. Pickup said the government could be doing a better job monitoring payments to providers and services received, to make sure they meet contract terms. Michael Pickup, Nova Scotia's auditor general, says the province needs better monitoring of how it's managing home-care contracts. (CBC) The government isn't monitoring the complaints process, he said. The government has accepted all seven of his office's recommendation, including calling for performance indicators for all home-care service providers. Health authority's role Pickup also calls on the Department of Health to monitor whether the provincial health authority is meeting responsibilities on the matter. "Another decade should not pass before these recommendations are complete," he said in the video. While Pickup found funding for the service is accurately calculated and documented, he noted providers worry there isn't much for travel and continued education and that the health authority is concerned with the approach to funding. Other checks and balances Lindsay Peach, vice-president of integrated health and community support for the health authority, told reporters the Health Department does audit home-care providers for standards. While there is work to do, Peach said monitoring includes a financial component and examination of service standards. "There are actually other checks and balances in place," she said. "I think both organizations had their own processes in place and the other thing this recommendation speaks to is the need to be specific." CBC InvestigatesReports reveal 46 abuse cases over 2 years in Nova Scotia nursing homes CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Nova Scotia doctor shortage plan hampered by poor communications, says AG Government lacks plan to deliver mental health services for all, says AG External Links Auditor General's report on home care support contracts Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now