Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan How to follow CBC's coverage of the Saskatchewan Party leadership race CBC Saskatchewan is your guide for everything you need to know about the Saskatchewan Party leadership race which comes to an end Saturday as the party names its new leader. Social Sharing Premier-designate to be announced at convention in Saskatoon on Saturday CBC News · Posted: Jan 25, 2018 12:36 PM CT | Last Updated: January 27, 2018 The Saskatchewan Party will be announcing its new leader and premier-designate on Saturday. (iStock) comments CBC Saskatchewan is your guide for everything you need to know about the Saskatchewan Party leadership race which comes to an end Saturday as the party names its new leader.  There are five candidates running for Premier Brad Wall's job — Tina Beaudry-Mellor, Ken Cheveldayoff, Alanna Koch, Scott Moe and Gord Wyant.  CBC Saskatchewan's team will bring you live coverage from the party's convention on Saturday at Prairieland Park in Saskatoon.  'This is the new Saskatchewan': Brad Wall makes final speech before Scott Moe voted next premier 2nd ballot spot could be key to victory for Sask. Party race: experts In DepthA look at Brad Wall's time as Saskatchewan premier told by those who know him and watched his career Online: CBC Saskatchewan will bring you the latest details on the leadership race and what it means for the province at cbc.ca/sask. In-person voting for Sask. Party members begins at noon CST. The program begins at 2:30 p.m. It will include: Candidate speeches around 2:30 p.m. Premier Brad Wall's keynote address around 4 p.m. Leadership results around 6 p.m. Victory speech from premier-designate around 6:30 p.m. CBC will be carrying portions of the program live online. Want a breaking news alert when the new leader is announced? Download the CBC News app and sign up for Saskatchewan alerts in the settings.  Facebook: CBC Saskatchewan will be carrying much of the program live on Facebook. Like CBC Saskatchewan's Facebook page and follow along Saturday as our team brings you live coverage from the convention.  How voting works at Sask. Party leadership convention Saskatchewan3 years ago 0:52More than 27,000 people have their Saskatchewan Party membership, making them eligible to vote for who will be the province’s next premier. Here how things will proceed during Saturday's leadership convention. 0:52 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'This is the new Saskatchewan': Brad Wall makes final speech before Scott Moe voted next premier 2nd ballot spot could be key to victory for Sask. Party race: experts In Depth A look at Brad Wall's time as Saskatchewan premier told by those who know him and watched his career 'No solid polling' done in Sask. Party leadership race, political expert says Where does Sask.'s future premier stand on legal cannabis, the GTH? Sask. Party leadership candidates 'living in the shadow of Brad Wall': prof Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now