Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Ottawa Hull-Aylmer MP pledges to help clear pot offenders' records Liberal MP Greg Fergus is vowing to help some of the hundreds of thousands of Canadians with convictions for marijuana possession get their criminal records cleared — but they'll have to wait until after legalization. Social Sharing Greg Fergus says possession convictions disproportionately affect black, Indigenous Canadians Amanda Pfeffer · CBC News · Posted: Mar 05, 2018 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2018 Greg Fergus is pledging to seek remedies for some of the 500,000 Canadians who have a criminal record because of marijuana possession convictions. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) A west Quebec MP is pledging to help some of the hundreds of thousands of Canadians with marijuana convictions get their criminal records cleared — but they'll have to wait until after legalization. Greg Fergus, the Liberal MP for Hull-Aylmer, said he'll be seeking remedies for some of the 500,000 Canadians who he said have a criminal record related to simple possession of marijuana. Consideration of pot pardons overdue, says Ottawa activist "I will be one of the first people at the door saying … let's start getting busy and sharpening our pencils to try to figure out how we can best deal with this," Fergus said.  Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said he would not consider issuing amnesties or creating an expedited pardon program until after cannabis is legalized in July 2018. Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale has also said officials are examining "all the legal implications for possible pardons, or record suspensions, for criminal records for cannabis." Charges, convictions dropping There has been a precipitous drop in the number of charges for simple possession of marijuana in Ottawa, from 341 charges in 2012 to 216 in 2016 — the most recent year data is available from Statistics Canada. Ottawa lawyer Michael Spratt said that anecdotally he's seen a decline in the number of people charged with marijuana possession over the last year. Spratt also said he's been getting phone calls from clients anxious to clear their criminal records in light of the new law — and he's frustrated with how long it's taking the federal government to consider expediting the pardon process. Ottawa lawyer Michael Spratt said he's seen fewer middle class Canadians charged with marijuana possession — but he continues to defend marginalized individuals on the same charges. (CBC) "There seems to be no interest from this government to work on the pardon issue, despite the promise of a review," Spratt said.  In 2010, Parliament passed legislation that doubled the waiting period for people to apply for a record suspension — more commonly referred to as a pardon. Spratt successfully had Ontario courts strike down the extension as unconstitutional, and a similar case in B.C. came to the same conclusion. Still, someone charged today would still have to wait until at least 2023 before being able to apply for a pardon on a simple possession charge. Spratt said that while he's seen fewer middle class Canadians charged with marijuana possession, he continues to defend marginalized individuals on the same charges. Black, Indigenous Canadians Fergus said that — whether the solution is a pardon or some kind of amnesty —  he hopes the discussion considers the growing evidence that a disproportionate number of people convicted of marijuana possession come from black and Indigenous communities. Research suggesting higher conviction rates for small amounts of marijuana possession, Fergus said, "leads to the uncomfortable conclusion that there's something systemic at work where more black folks are charged, remanded and convicted." He said he's not advocating for different laws for different Canadians, however. "I just want people to understand how we got here," Fergus said. the currentConvicted pot offenders need special access to the legal weed market: sociologist Legalization of pot should recognize 'systemic racism' experienced by black community: Liberal MP Fergus also said the decision to exclude people with criminal records from participating in the soon-to-be-legal industry needs to be more nuanced. "It sounds like it's a good idea," he said.  "But if there is systemic racism which caused these people to have criminal records, it seems we're only perpetuating the discrimination that would [end with them] not having the same economic opportunities. So it's not an easy situation." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Consideration of pot pardons overdue, says Ottawa activist the current Convicted pot offenders need special access to the legal weed market: sociologist Legalization of pot should recognize 'systemic racism' experienced by black community: Liberal MP Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now