Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Independent review of Nova Scotia forestry given 2-month extension The independent review of Nova Scotia's forestry practices has been extended by two months. It is now expected to be completed by the end of April. Social Sharing The review was originally due out next Wednesday, but is now expected to be done by the end of April The Canadian Press · Posted: Feb 21, 2018 1:16 PM AT | Last Updated: February 21, 2018 The independent review of Nova Scotia's forestry practices has been extended by two months and is now due out in April. (CBC) comments The independent review of Nova Scotia's forestry practices has been extended by two months. Announced Aug. 30, 2017, the review headed by University of King's College president Bill Lahey was originally due next Wednesday, but is now expected to be completed by the end of April. Natural Resources Minister Margaret Miller said Lahey requested the extension because more work is required to complete the report. Lahey has said he's been given a broad mandate, including the ability to examine clear cutting. The controversial practice drew public attention in 2016 when the Liberal government said it was backing away from a previously stated goal of reducing the practice on Crown land by 50 per cent. About 90 per cent of wood harvested in Nova Scotia is clear cut, according to federal figures. The province said the review is to provide recommendations that balance long-term environmental, social and economic interests in managing the forests. The review was first promised prior to last spring's provincial election and became a key part of the Liberals' environmental platform. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Forestry practices to be reviewed by former deputy minister Don't make forestry review a nod to industry, ecology group says Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now