Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics International Narcotics Control Board remains troubled by Canada's pot legalization plan The International Narcotics Control Board is expressing concerns about the Trudeau government’s plan to legalize recreational pot use in Canada, warning the move will place Canada in violation of international drug control conventions. Social Sharing NDP MP says Canada had plenty of time to deal with international drug treaties and did not act Peter Zimonjic, Louis Blouin · CBC · Posted: Mar 08, 2018 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 8, 2018 The International Narcotics Control Board's recently released annual report is expressing concern that Canada intends to legalize cannabis while remaining a signatory to international treaties that ban the move. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) comments The International Narcotics Control Board is expressing concerns about the Trudeau government's plan to legalize recreational cannabis use in Canada, warning the move will place Canada in violation of international drug control conventions. The board reaffirmed its opposition in its newly-released 2017 report, which states that using cannabis for anything other than medical or scientific purposes would be a violation of conventions Canada has signed. "As the board has stated repeatedly, if passed into law, provisions of Bill C-45, which permit non-medical and non-scientific use of cannabis, would be incompatible with the obligations assumed by Canada under the 1961 Convention as amended," the report said. Canada signed three UN conventions prohibiting the production, possession and consumption of drugs, including cannabis. Despite numerous warnings, the Trudeau government has not revealed how it plans to stay in compliance with the conventions. First Nations demanding a cut of cannabis tax after pot legalization More Canadians overall smoking pot than in 1985, says StatsCan Senate deal on cannabis bill timeline means no sales before August "Right now, we have a total lack of strategy," said Bruno Gélinas-Faucher, a doctoral candidate in international law at the University of Cambridge and a lecturer at the University of Montreal. He said Ottawa must quickly clarify its intentions to avoid harming its image and its credibility on the international stage — and warns that the legalization project could jeopardize Canada's chances of getting a seat on the United Nations Security Council. Canada's leadership role "We should have done our homework in advance. This is not something new. It is a commitment that Mr. Trudeau took before the 2015 campaign," said NDP MP Matthew Dubé. Canada could withdraw from the agreements with the intention of re-joining them at a later date — but it's too late now to withdraw from the treaties before legalization takes effect, since they require a notice of withdrawal six to 12 months in advance. The federal government also could ask the World Health Organization to look into reclassifying cannabis in international treaties. Dubé said Canada should "play a leadership role" in modernizing these agreements. For the moment, however, the Liberal government has yet to clarify its approach to these treaties. Punishments limited Adam Austen, a spokesman for Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland, said that experts have been consulted to "determine the best way forward for our international commitments." But he offered no guidance on how Canada will meet its obligations. "We are committed to working with our global partners to better promote public health and the fight against illicit drug trafficking," he said. While Canada appears set to violate these international agreements, the board has limited powers when it comes to forcing signatories to comply. Gélinas-Faucher said that the agency can ask countries which signed these agreements to discontinue their drug trade with Canada, since the agreements govern trade in legal drugs as well. And another country could sue Canada before the International Court of Justice. Those scenarios, however, are considered unlikely. Uruguay, which also legalized cannabis, has not been subjected to similar reprisals. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories First Nations demanding a cut of cannabis tax after pot legalization More Canadians overall smoking pot than in 1985, says StatsCan Senate deal on cannabis bill timeline means no sales before August Full implementation of legal cannabis could be delayed beyond July 1 Uruguay becomes 1st nation to legalize marijuana trade Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now