Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics 'Into the dark': With just months to go before legalization, federal government funds marijuana research With the legalization of recreational cannabis use just months away, the federal government is "stepping a little into the dark," according to the scientist who helped create pot use guidelines for Canada. Social Sharing Susan Lunn · CBC News · Posted: Mar 10, 2018 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 10, 2018 The federal government put aside $20 million in its most recent budget for research into the impact of cannabis use in Canada. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) comments With the legalization of recreational cannabis use just months away, the federal government is "stepping a little into the dark," according to the scientist who helped create pot use guidelines for Canada. Dr. Benedikt Fischer, a senior scientist at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health in Toronto, said cannabis is a complex drug — and there's still a lot we don't know about its effects. "We're stepping a little into the dark, into the fog, with this step forward for legalization," Fischer said. Even MP Bill Blair, the federal government's point man on pot, has said there's a need for more scientific evidence to help people make responsible choices once they're able to buy marijuana legally. "I think we need to continue to work hard to identify what is a safe level of use, what effects this could have. We have a lot of anecdotal evidence and frankly not a lot of good health evidence to help people make healthy choices," Blair told CBC. He said young people in particular need access to better science. "We have the highest rates of cannabis use in the world, and clearly just trying to frighten them into abstinence hasn't worked. I think we should inform them into healthier choices," Blair said. New money for research The recent federal budget included new money for cannabis research — $20 million over five years to be divided between the Mental Health Commission of Canada and the Canadian Centre on Substance Abuse and Addiction. The budget also set aside almost a billion dollars for Canada's three granting councils, including the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), to conduct general research that will include marijuana. Dr. Samuel Weiss is the scientific director of neurosciences, mental health and addiction at CIHR. He's also co-ordinating government-wide research on cannabis use. First Nations demanding a cut of cannabis tax after pot legalization Research lacking on medical marijuana, new prescription guideline suggests With legalization a year away, experts offer tips on minimizing pot harm That research is focusing on 12 priority subjects, but Weiss said there are a few areas in particular that need more research, including neurodevelopment. "Understanding the impact that cannabis has on neurodevelopmental outcomes, for example — preconception, pregnancy, the fetus, and child and youth brain development," Dr. Weiss told CBC in an interview. He also points to the need for a better understanding around impairment and "its effects on cognitive function, driving and workplace safety." Weiss said most of this research is only possible now that marijuana is about to become legal. "The fact that it was an illegal substance made it almost impossible to study it before in a significant way. But now that it is to be legalized, it opens the door for more studies," Weiss said. Legalization raising new questions But Fischer said the very act of legalization raises more questions. "Does it change who uses cannabis, how people use cannabis and what the ... acute and long term health consequences are?" He also points to questions about how people intend to ingest the drug. "Twenty years ago, pretty much everybody who used cannabis were either smoking a joint or, to a lesser degree, a hash pipe. Now we have vaping, e-cigarette devices, we have edibles, drinkables. All of those modes of use are available and evolving," he said. Joint Ventures: The edible side of cannabis CBC News Toronto3 years ago 0:56In the second part of CBC Toronto's Joint Ventures series, we take a look at the edible side of the flourishing cannabis industry in the lead up to legalization. 0:56 Fischer said he also wants the federal government to do more studies on how to treat those addicted to marijuana. "The toolbox of treatment options or evidence-based forms of treatment for cannabis is extremely limited. There's no evidence-based or approved pharmatherapy, like there is methadone for opioids," he said. Despite all these unanswered questions, Fischer agrees it will be easier to answer them in a legal system than in an illegal one. Conservative health critic Marilyn Gladu said she is pleased the government is doing the research but she questions its logic in funding that research, pointing out that the budget earmarked about $550 million to create the legal network — but just $20 million for targeted research. "I don't know the government has the right priority on this," Gladu said. About the Author Susan Lunn Susan Lunn has been covering politics in Ottawa since 2002. She has a special interest in health and the environment. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories First Nations demanding a cut of cannabis tax after pot legalization Hull-Aylmer MP pledges to help clear pot offenders' records Research lacking on medical marijuana, new prescription guideline suggests With legalization a year away, experts offer tips on minimizing pot harm Marijuana legalization in Canada: What we know and don't know Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now