Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Canada Judge accuses Kenora police of suppressing evidence Kenora police will be investigated after a judge ruled officers willfully mishandled the investigation into the death of a native man. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 19, 2004 10:07 PM ET | Last Updated: March 20, 2004 The Ontario Provincial Police force is to investigate allegations that some Kenora police officers suppressed and fabricated evidence in a manslaughter case. Last month, Ontario Superior Court Justice Peter Hambly ordered a stay of the judicial proceedings against Justin Carambetsos, a Kenora man charged with manslaughter in connection with the death four years ago of Max Kakegamic. But the reasons for his decision were not revealed until Friday, when the Crown confirmed it would not appeal and a publication ban was lifted. Officers on the Kenora police force's criminal investigations unit ignored evidence pointing toward another possible suspect in Kakegamic's death, instead focusing solely on Carambetsos, according to the judge. More than one suspect He concluded that police also manufactured evidence to eliminate a second man as a suspect. The judge said he couldn't let the Crown prosecute Carambetsos on the basis of evidence a jury could not trust. According Hambly's ruling: "What they [the officers] did was to use the power of the state to gather evidence to support their conclusion that Justin Carambetsos was guilty. Not only did they do that, they used the power of the state to suppress evidence which supported the accused's innocence." A relieved Carambetsos, 28, said: "I'm sure it'll be something that I will remember forever. How do you forget losing the better part of your twenties?" George Curtis, Kenora police chief, has assigned two police officers to administrative duties, pending the outcome of the investigation. The other possible suspect is the nephew of one of the investigating officers. Kakegamic, a man from Fort Hope in northern Ontario, was found dead on a sidewalk close to Carambetsos's apartment in Kenora on Oct. 4, 2000. He appeared to have been beaten to death. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now