Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Ken Cheveldayoff officially joins race to lead Saskatchewan Party Using "Rural Roots, Urban Strong" as his campaign slogan, veteran Saskatchewan Party MLA Ken Cheveldayoff officially launched his bid Monday to become the party's next leader. Social Sharing Veteran Saskatoon politician highlights 'rural roots, urban strength' in bid Jennifer Quesnel · CBC News · Posted: Aug 28, 2017 11:46 AM CT | Last Updated: August 28, 2017 Ken Cheveldayoff currently represents Saskatoon Willowgrove. (Jennifer Quesnel/CBC News) A crowd of more than 150 people cheered on veteran Saskatchewan Party MLA Ken Cheveldayoff as he launched his official leadership bid Monday. Cheveldayoff joked his campaign may be one of the "worst-kept secrets in Saskatchewan", after he stepped down last week from his cabinet post as Minister of Parks, Culture and Sport. Sask. Party to elect new leader in January 2018 Who will replace Brad Wall as Saskatchewan Party leader? Describing himself as a "centrist, very much a moderate", Cheveldayoff said he is the only candidate so far who has strong ties to both rural and urban Saskatchewan. He joins Tina Beaudry-Mellor, Alanna Koch, Gordon Wyant and Jeremy Harrison in the race to succeed Brad Wall. 'We've made some mistakes' Cheveldayoff said his government has "made some mistakes" in calculating the provincial budget, and in handling the Global Transportation Hub.  "What we now need to do is take a step back, realize what we've done wrong and prepare for another 10 years of growth," said Cheveldayoff, who has bounced in and out of cabinet posts during the Saskatchewan Party's 10 years in office. Bill Boyd booted from caucus over conflict of interest, legal action possible Sask. gov't uses half of contingency fund to keep budget on track in 1st quarter Cheveldayoff said the GTH would be "better run in the private sector" and should be sold to free up money for education and mental health care.  "We'll be admitting where we've made some mistakes, and more importantly looking forward and having a plan to go forward," Cheveldayoff said. "I'm ready for that job." Ken Cheveldayoff officially launched his bid to become the party's next leader on Aug. 28. (Jennifer Quesnel/CBC News) Fascination with politics began early Cheveldayoff is a familiar face at Conservative Party events in Saskatoon. He was first elected in Saskatoon Silver Springs in 2003, and currently represents northeast residents in Saskatoon Willowgrove.  He attributes his fascination with politics to the "profound impact" John Diefenbaker made on him, the day the former prime minister flew by helicopter to his school yard in Blaine Lake. "I was so excited to meet him that I ran out there and I was the first one in line to meet him. And I was so excited that I ran to the back of the line so I could meet him again," he told supporters Monday. More than 150 supporters packed a ballroom Monday at the Sheraton-Cavalier hotel in Saskatoon, to cheer on Saskatchewan Party leadership hopeful Ken Cheveldayoff. (CBC) Cheveldayoff went on to win the first Queen Elizabeth II scholarship for excellence in parliamentary studies, and served as a page in the House of Commons while attending Carleton University.  His wife, Trish Cheveldayoff, was a longtime anchor at Saskatoon's CFQC television station. Their son attends the University of Saskatchewan, and their daughter is finishing Grade 12 at St. Joseph's High School. A self-described "centrist", Cheveldayoff attended Saskatoon's flag-raising for Pride Week in 2014 alongside then-MLA Rob Norris.  Saskatoon city hall raises rainbow flag for Saskatoon Pride To date, Cheveldayoff's lone endorsement from within the Saskatchewan Party comes from caucus chair Randy Weekes.  "I think to be fair, most of them are sitting and waiting to see who's all in," said Cheveldayoff. MORE SASKATOON NEWS | 2 young girls credited with saving lives in Saskatoon house fire MORE SASKATOON NEWS | Saskatoon gets more money out of PotashCorp for water drawn from river CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Tina Beaudry-Mellor announces Sask. Party leadership bid Gordon Wyant joins Saskatchewan Party leadership race Meadow Lake MLA Jeremy Harrison announces Sask. Party leadership run Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now