Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Legal cannabis will cost Regina police more than $1M a year, report says A new report headed to city hall next week says cannabis legalization will cost the Regina Police Service between $1.2 million and $1.8 million every year. Social Sharing Estimates range between $1.2M and $1.8M annually, or 2.2% of budget Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Feb 10, 2018 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: February 10, 2018 The city's executive committee will discuss what changes need to happen in order for the city to be ready for cannabis legalization. (Erik White/CBC ) Cannabis legalization will cost the Regina Police Service more than a million dollars a year, according to a new report headed to city hall next week.  The report, to be discussed by council's executive committee, recommends city staff start making necessary regulatory and bylaw changes to ensure the city is ready for legal cannabis, from drafting new zoning regulations to creating options for doling out business licences to pot shops. It also recommends city council OK the plan for the Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority to issue six licenses to private pot retailers ahead of the opt-out deadline at the end of the month. SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says As well, it directs Mayor Michael Fougere to pen a letter to Premier Scott Moe, requesting one-third of the province's cannabis revenue be given to the city.  The federal government has said it plans to legalize recreational marijuana by summer 2018. Recently, the provincial government unveiled some of its plan for the sale and distribution of pot.  SGI training more drug recognition experts, despite concerns testing is 'highly subjective' Pot money won't be considered in upcoming provincial budget, Moe says "With the anticipated introduction of the legalization of cannabis legislation, the [Regina Police Service] has been working proactively to forecast increased costs for the service," reads the report submitted by city manager Chris Holden and Shelia Harmatiuk, the city's senior advisor for government and Indigenous relations. "The RPS anticipates increased expenditures in the areas of education, equipment, training, and enforcement." For example, the report says purchasing roadside screening devices will cost $25,000 in 2018 and $50,000 for future years.  Regina police hand out warning letters to city's pot shops Regina Police Chief Evan Bray 3 years ago 1:49The Regina police are getting cheers and jeers for saying there may be a crack down on the city's illegal pot dispensaries. 1:49 The report explains police forces across Canada are trying to calculate how much legalization will cost in hard numbers, taking into account the expense of training officers, buying roadside screening devices to nab impaired drivers and dedicating investigative resources for cannabis-related crimes.  "Following the model that other police agencies are forecasting, RPS anticipates additional expenses in the first year to be between 1.6 per cent and 2.2 per cent of our net operating budget. This estimate of costs would be between $1.2 and $1.8 million annually," the report says. It will be presented to the executive committee next Wednesday. About the Author Stephanie Taylor Reporter, CBC Saskatchewan Stephanie Taylor is a reporter based in Saskatchewan. Before joining CBC News in Regina, she covered municipal politics in her hometown of Winnipeg and in Halifax. Reach her at stephanie.taylor@cbc.ca @__stephanietaylor CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Pot money won't be considered in upcoming provincial budget, Moe says Regina police hand out warning letters to city's pot shops Saskatoon city council looking to add pot to smoking bylaw Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now