Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Legalization of pot presents conundrum for Canadian military The Canadian military is wrestling with thorny questions ahead of this year's legalization of pot. The chief of military personnel has ordered research on health effects and what constitutes impairment. Social Sharing Senior commander is prepared to recommend 'control measures' for legalized marijuana Murray Brewster · CBC News · Posted: Jan 05, 2018 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 5, 2018 The military has limited and even banned the consumption of alcohol in specific circumstances, notably in Afghanistan, but it's unclear what they'll do when marijuana is legalized. (Jeff McIntosh/Canadian Press) comments Ensuring its soldiers, sailors and aircrew are not the slightest bit stoned as they go out the door to war or other hazards is the subject of intense study and debate as the Canadian military looks ahead to this year's expected legalization of marijuana. The army, navy, air force and special forces are not your average workplaces, and the senior commander in charge of military personnel says he won't hesitate to recommend restrictions and screening should the need arise. Canadian military studying issue of soldiers and legalized recreational pot Politics News3 years ago 3:19The CBC's Murray Brewster looks at the military's preparations for legalized marijuana. 3:19 "We're concerned about how folks will be able to do their job," Lt.-Gen. Chuck Lamarre told CBC News. "And we are concerned about folks who have the challenges of operating heavy equipment, weaponry, who are on call on a regular basis to go and do things, like our [search and rescue] technicians." Consider workplace safety, business groups say The Liberal government's legislation to legalize and regulate recreational use of marijuana is before the Senate. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, in an interview before Christmas, said it would be "next summer" before it becomes law. Workplace safety has figured in some aspects of the pot debate, but Lamarre said the potential for increased use and acceptance among the general population brings with it pressing national security concerns. Dangerous environments "We have to be able to protect the Canadian Armed Forces' ability to be able to send men and and women — at a moment's notice — to operate in some very, very dangerous and demanding environments," he said. Since last spring, a team of military policy experts, including medical, legal and officers on operational duty, has been examining the implications of the legislation and what policies might have to change. Lamarre, who oversaw Joint Task Force Afghanistan in 2011, is the Canadian Armed Forces chief of military personnel. He says he is prepared to 'recommend or propose control measures' for marijuana that are based on scientific research. (Murray Brewster/CBC) Lamarre said it's too soon to know if there will be limits on marijuana use, but he is prepared to "recommend or propose control measures" as long as there's scientific research to back them up. Employers in the civilian world can prohibit drug and alcohol use in the workplace, with some exceptions for medical marijuana patients. The military has limited and even banned the consumption of alcohol in specific circumstances, notably in Afghanistan. 'Safety-sensitive' positions There is a long-established drug testing policy for "safety-sensitive" positions and — as recently as five years ago — National Defence faced an intense internal lobbying campaign from senior commanders who wanted to see the list of jobs subject to screening drastically expanded. That push failed, and Lamarre noted that, from the point of view of legal rights, the military has to be "very careful how we apply" randomized testing. Do you want some bozo driving a tank to be strung out? No.— Stuart Hendin, lawyer and military  instructor However, an expert in military and constitutional law said defence officials should not be timid in controlling marijuana use. Not only would the law be on the side of restrictions and precautions, but so would the public. "Do you want some bozo driving a tank to be strung out? No," said Stuart Hendin, a consultant and peacekeeping trainer with the United Nations, who was previously an instructor at the Royal Military College and Canadian Forces College. "I think the public expects the military, like the police, will be held to a higher standard." The concept that they lead a different life should be drilled into the expectations of those serving, as should the idea of marijuana restrictions and random drug tests. "The military's function is the management of extreme violence. If you bear that in mind, then the increased restrictions should not be offensive to the community at large," said Hendin. Lamarre, however, said the military will have to rely on more than just a moral argument. Defining impairment He has ordered up a trove of health research, specifically on "what the impact of marijuana can be on the developing brain," said Lamarre. "We hire the 18-to-25 age group. We want to be aware of what the impact might be on the well-being of those folks who might be consuming this product." On the legal side, they are looking at what constitutes impairment. A team of military policy experts is examining the implications of legalized marijuana for Canadian Forces members. 'We hire the 18-to-25 age group. We want to be aware of what the impact might be on the well-being of those folks who might be consuming this product,' says Lt.-Gen. Chuck Lamarre. (David Donnelly/CBC) There is no government-approved technology to conduct roadside tests for marijuana impairment, and experts argue urine and blood tests are not useful because regular cannabis users can test positive days —  even weeks —  after the last use. "How do you deal with that?" Lamarre asks. "Is there a testing technology that is coming around the corner?" And then there is the question of how military messes, or dining halls, treat marijuana. Alcohol is sold there under licensed conditions. Lamarre said whether marijuana would be available under similar circumstances is something they haven't even considered. More seniors, fewer minors smoking pot About the Author Murray Brewster Defence and security Murray Brewster is senior defence writer for CBC News, based in Ottawa. He has covered the Canadian military and foreign policy from Parliament Hill for over a decade. Among other assignments, he spent a total of 15 months on the ground covering the Afghan war for The Canadian Press. Prior to that, he covered defence issues and politics for CP in Nova Scotia for 11 years and was bureau chief for Standard Broadcast News in Ottawa. Follow @Murray_Brewster on Twitter More from Murray Brewster CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Marijuana use down among minors, up among older Canadians, StatsCan study finds 'We're not ready': Edmonton police brace for marijuana legalization, chief says Consider workplace safety in legalized marijuana rules, groups urge Cities grapple with bylaw and regulation changes as they race to make legal pot deadline Employers want Ottawa's help to deal with marijuana-smoking workers Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now