Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Legal age for marijuana use should be 21, say top public health officials Nova Scotia's chief medical officer of health made presentation to House of Commons committee on Thursday on behalf of his counterparts from across the country. Social Sharing Nova Scotia's chief medical officer of health made presentation to House of Commons committee on Thursday Amy Smith · CBC News · Posted: Sep 15, 2017 8:00 AM AT | Last Updated: September 15, 2017 Nova Scotia's Chief Medical Officer of Health made a presentation before the House of Commons health committee Thursday on behalf of his counterparts from across the country. (Ron Ward/Canadian Press) comments Some of Canada's top health officials are telling Ottawa they believe the legal age for using marijuana should be 21. Nova Scotia's chief medical officer of health made a presentation through video conference to the House of Commons health committee Thursday on behalf of his counterparts from across the country. Dr. Robert Strang told CBC in an interview that information gleaned from experience regulating tobacco and alcohol, as well as from jurisdictions in the U.S., suggests 21 would be an appropriate age for marijuana use. "[The] age of 21, over the long term, has a bigger impact on decreasing youth cannabis use rates than having an age of 19," Strang said. MPs urged to push forward with legal cannabis despite calls to slow down Quandary of edible products Last week, Ontario unveiled its pot plan, with a proposed minimum age of 19 to use recreational marijuana. The province also announced an online ordering service and about 150 stand-alone stores. Strang addressed the sale of edible marijuana, saying it needs to be done extremely carefully to "minimize the normalization" of eating cannabis, especially for children and youth. Police in Quebec seized these THC-laced gummi bears in 2015. (Laval Police) "Once you allow the legalization of edible products, the range is almost endless and you have all sorts of issues around how do you control consumption of edible products," he said. "I think it needs to be done thoughtfully and carefully and with lots of consultations with provinces and territories and with a range of other stakeholders." Cost should rise over time As for the cost, Strang said in the beginning, the price of legal marijuana will have to be competitive with the illegal market. But over time, he advocates making pot more expensive. Nova Scotia's Chief Medical Officer of Health, Dr. Robert Strang, said 21 should be the legal age for using marijuana. (CBC) "Like we've learned with tobacco and alcohol and other things, price is one of the key factors that you can use to decrease use, especially for heavy users and especially for youth," he said.   Strang said products that are less likely to cause harm, such as non-smokable forms of the drug and those with lower concentrations of THC, cost less.  Cannabis black market will thrive without an inclusive legal industry, MPs hear 'A grey zone' The Trudeau government introduced legislation in April to legalize and regulate the sale and distribution of marijuana on or before July 1, 2018. Earlier this week, law enforcement officials appeared before the House of Commons health committee, saying they needed more time to get ready. Strang said the current situation around marijuana is "very much a grey zone." "Lack of clarity on what's legal and illegal and who is operating and what should be the policing resources brought to bear is not helpful for anybody," he said. "So my own perspective is that the sooner we actually move to a situation of much greater clarity, even though we may not have all the pieces in place, the better off we'll be." Ontario unveils pot plan, including online ordering, 150 stand-alone stores CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario unveils pot plan, including online ordering, 150 stand-alone stores Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now