Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Legalization of pot should recognize 'systemic racism' experienced by black community: Liberal MP Liberal MP Greg Fergus says the plan to legalize marijuana should take into account the fact that the black community has been disproportionately criminalized for using the drug. Social Sharing Liberal black caucus gathered in Ottawa this week to discuss impact of legalizing marijuana Joanna Smith · The Canadian Press · Posted: Aug 22, 2017 2:04 PM ET | Last Updated: August 22, 2017 Liberal MP Greg Fergus (Hull-Aylmer) says the plan to legalize marijuana should take into account the fact that the black community has been disproportionately criminalized for using the drug. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) The plan to legalize marijuana should recognize that the black community has been overly criminalized for using the drug, says a Liberal MP who is calling on the government to consider that perspective. "We do know that black Canadians have been disproportionately charged with and are imprisoned for possession of small amounts of cannabis," Greg Fergus, a Quebec MP who chairs the Liberal black caucus, said Tuesday. "I don't think that's because there is a greater propensity in the black community to consume marijuana," he said. "We have to look at the questions of systemic racism." Fergus added that the same could be said for Indigenous Peoples and he wants to make sure that is reflected in the ongoing debate over the proposed legislation to legalize marijuana, also known as Bill C-45, which the House of Commons health committee will begin studying next month. The MP, who gathered with other African-Canadian leaders in Ottawa this week to discuss this and other issues affecting people of colour, said they also want to reach out to the community to discuss the economic and social justice impacts of the proposed legislation. Pot charges drop in 2016, Statistics Canada reports Federal-provincial showdown looms over legal pot deadline With legalization a year away, experts offer tips on minimizing pot harm Fergus nonetheless said he agreed with the Liberal government's decision not to decriminalize simple possession of marijuana for the time being. New Democrat MP Alistair MacGregor questioned Fergus's logic. "How can the Liberals claim to understand this issue and yet choose to keep handing out possession charges and criminal records that unfairly target young people of colour?" he said in an emailed statement. Reacting to Charlottesville Fergus, who appeared at a news conference in Ottawa alongside Michael Coteau, the Ontario minister responsible for anti-racism, and Independent Sen. Wanda Elaine Thomas Bernard, said the leaders also discussed the need for more data on race across all levels of government. As well, they talked about the importance of seeking allies outside their communities and efforts to adopt the UN's International Decade for People of African Descent. They all spoke of having strong reactions to seeing the racism and hatred expressed by white supremacists who marched earlier this month in Charlottesville, Va., but expressed hope that those voices are in the minority. "It was shocking. I never expected to see in this day and age such baldly held views on anti-Semitism or on racism," said Fergus. "The comforting thought that I had, of course, is the law of numbers," he said, adding that he felt the same way when he saw that counter-protesters outnumbered those who were with La Meute, a group associated with the far right, in Quebec City over the weekend. "I feel strongly that most people don't hold those views." 'This is not acceptable' Thomas Bernard, a Nova Scotia senator, said it was a reminder of what her ancestors lived through, but she tried to focus on those who spoke out against the racism. "I think we need more of that around the world," she said. "We need people who disagree with the narrative to take a stand, to express that in some way, to say 'This is not acceptable."' All three were more cautious when pressed on what they thought of the mixed messages U.S. President Donald Trump has been sending on what he thought of the events in Charlottesville, but Coteau said everyone has the responsibility to denounce hatred. "I think any form of hate that exists, any form of overt racism that's out there publicly, it needs to be stopped and we need to speak against it," said Coteau, who is also the minister for children and youth services. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Pot charges drop in 2016, Statistics Canada reports Federal-provincial showdown looms over legal pot deadline With legalization a year away, experts offer tips on minimizing pot harm Ads aim to dispel myth that driving on cannabis is acceptable Mayors press Trudeau Liberals for help to handle legalized marijuana Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now