Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Legalized pot price in Sask. will be comparable to street price, province says Now that the province has settled on 19 as the legal age for the purchase and consumption of cannabis following legalization, the next question is how much pot will cost in Saskatchewan? Social Sharing Cannabis will be taxed in province, says justice minister Adam Hunter · CBC News · Posted: Mar 15, 2018 4:16 PM CT | Last Updated: March 16, 2018 The Saskatchewan government says it's discussing what taxes may be placed on cannabis but those details aren't expected until the budget in April. (Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg) Now that the province has settled on 19 as the legal age for the purchase and consumption of cannabis following legalization, the next question is how much pot will cost in Saskatchewan. Private retailers will have the final say on price but the province will set a suggested cost and also apply its own tax. "You will see a tax on pot, as we do with virtually every other commodity that's sold in our province," Minister of Justice Don Morgan said Thursday. 19 is legal age for pot in Saskatchewan AnalysisHow high will the price of legal pot be? No new money for pot enforcement: Sask. justice minister He said the province is not planning on making cannabis tax free because of the costs associated with distribution, a regulatory scheme and enforcement. It is not clear whether a sin tax will be applied in addition. The details of the cost and tax will be included in the province's April 10 budget, Morgan said. Cost across country will vary The federal government has suggested a minimum cost of $10 per gram — taxes included — in an effort to squeeze out the black market. Province aims to break even on pot sales, holds off on revenue projection Cost is expected to vary across the country because of the different tax schemes in different provinces. One gram of dried marijuana bud, with a $2 coin for comparison. The federal government has suggested a minimum cost of $10 per gram for legal cannabis. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) Canada's Parliamentary Budget Office released a report in 2016 on the street cost of marijuana across the country. It found marijuana cost an average of $8.32 per gram between February 2015 and August 2016. In Saskatchewan and Manitoba the average was $9.99. Statistics Canada also tracks medical and recreational pot prices across the country by monitoring websites that ask people to voluntarily and anonymously submit the price they paid for their last gram of marijuana. According to statistics compiled by the agency, the average price for marijuana in Saskatchewan in 2017 was $7.10 per gram. Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram Morgan said the province hopes the cost for legal cannabis is cheaper than, or comparable to, black market prices. "I suspect there would be a willingness on the part of the public to pay a premium for a product of known and trusted quality where they weren't breaking the law," Morgan said. The federal government has already set its excise tax on cannabis at $1 a gram or 10 per cent of the final retail price, whichever is higher, with the revenue split 75-25 between the provinces and Ottawa. Point of ViewSask. pot plan could put big biz at advantage over smaller outfits, says economist Saskatchewan Minister of Finance Donna Harpauer said the government is weighing its options in budget deliberations when considering a minimum cost for marijuana and the province's tax regime. "We need the sweet spot to still undermine the black market without making it crazy inexpensive," Harpauer said. Concerns about transporting pot: NDP On Wednesday, NDP justice critic Nicole Sarauer raised concerns over parts of the legislation, including the requirement for someone who buys marijuana legally to go directly from the point of purchase to their home. "Essentially we're treating cannabis like a restricted firearm," Sarauer said. "It seems extremely strong." Morgan said that part of the legislation was asked for by police. He said it's a tool they can use to protect young people and is similar to rules around alcohol. "If you're buying groceries, buy your groceries on the way to your 'grass station' and go home after that," Morgan said. Sarauer said she believes parts of the legislation could open the government up to constitutional challenges. About the Author Adam Hunter Journalist Adam Hunter is the provincial affairs reporter at CBC Saskatchewan, based in Regina. He has been with CBC for 13 years. He hosts the CBC podcast On the Ledge. Follow him on Twitter @AHiddyCBC. Contact him: adam.hunter@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 19 is legal age for pot in Saskatchewan Province aims to break even on pot sales, holds off on revenue projection Point of View Sask. pot plan could put big biz at advantage over smaller outfits, says economist No new money for pot enforcement: Sask. justice minister Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram Analysis How high will the price of legal pot be? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now