Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Legal pot won't slow market for medical marijuana: advocate Medical marijuana advocates say the number of patients using medical cannabis will continue to grow even when the drug becomes legal for recreational use. Social Sharing Use of medical cannabis to treat everything from sleeplessness to anxiety likely won't change Charles Hamilton · CBC News · Posted: Jan 12, 2018 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: January 12, 2018 Kelly Csada of Kelz Medical Services Corp. — a Regina medical marijuana storefront — shows an elixir she says many people who rely on medical marijuana use. (CBC) Medical marijuana advocates say the number of patients using medical cannabis will continue to grow even when the drug becomes legal for recreational use. The federal government has said it intends to see recreational pot use legalized by July 1, and Saskatchewan announced earlier this week that it will be sold in 60 licensed stores across the province. Pot to the people: Sask. cannabis retailers pleased with provincial government's plan Government still can't say when legal pot goes on sale in Canada Federal marijuana legislation clears House of Commons, headed for the Senate But medical cannabis is already prescribed to thousands of people across Canada to treat everything from pain to disorders like Crohn's disease. While many patients wanting to take cannabis to treat ailments might soon turn to storefronts to buy the drug, the market for medical marijuana isn't going to end, according to one advocate. "Certainly there is going to be a huge market for recreational but I think people who are specifically trying to deal with ailments want somebody who they can confide in and trust," said Kait Shane, director of community outreach with Natural Health Services, which offers cannabis prescriptions and operates clinics in several cities, including Saskatoon.  Medical cannabis clinic to open in Saskatoon Shane said even as patients buy cannabis from stores without prescriptions, she hopes legalization will go a long way to legitimizing the drug — especially in provinces like Saskatchewan with a shortage of doctors willing to write cannabis prescriptions.  "The people will go wherever they need to go, but ideally more doctors will recognize that it's a valid form of treatment and yes, it's a respectable form of treatment." More people may self-medicate Bryan Salte, the associate registrar and legal counsel for the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan, said doctors will have to wait and see whether or not more people turn to self-medicating once the drug is legalized.  "My guess would be that fewer patients are going to going to seek prescriptions for marijuana if they can access it themselves on their own terms and based on their on conclusions," Salte said. Sask.'s zero-tolerance policy will hurt medical marijuana users, Crohn's patient says He said there are no concrete numbers to rely on to prove that, and that the college is sill waiting on Health Canada to provide accurate data on how many doctors are currently prescribing the drug in this province.  But, Salte said, legal cannabis will be treated by the college the same way alcohol is. The only real difference is there is a now a policy in Saskatchewan for doctors who think it would be an effective treatment.  "We similarly don't take a position on what individuals ought to do if they are accessing cannabis for recreational purposes or self-diagnosing and administering marijuana themselves without the involvement of a physicians," he said.  Insurance, taxes still on the table But the pending legal market does raise some thorny issues for medical users. Kait Shane with Natural Health Services says she believes medical cannabis will eventually be covered by insurance company drug plans. Medical marijuana patients have already raised flags about the province's suggestion of a "zero-tolerance" policy for driving under the influence of marijuana. Some have argued if they need to use the drug daily to fight a disease, they should still be allowed to drive.  There are other issues as well. Will there be a different tax model for people with a medical prescription versus people who want to simply use the drug recreationally?  In that case, Salte says, people will likely want prescriptions if that means they can get pot cheaper.  Shane says she knows there are advocates fighting extra taxes on medical cannabis and she envisions a day not too far away when medical cannabis is covered by insurance company drug plans.  Health Canada urged to clear way for medical pot insurance "That's another great reason for people to want to stay in the medicinal field, beyond the consultations with specialized doctors," she said. She said the problem for insurance companies is that medical marijuana doesn't have a drug identification number — a classification that requires going through the rigorous, expensive approval process required of all new drugs. She says some companies' health spending accounts will already cover some of the costs associated with cannabis treatments. With files from CBC's Andrea Huncar CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Pot to the people: Sask. cannabis retailers pleased with provincial government's plan First Nations in Saskatchewan question provincial jurisdiction over marijuana sales Saskatoon, Regina mayors say public will be consulted over city pot shop plans Sask.'s zero-tolerance policy will hurt medical marijuana users, Crohn's patient says Science to support marijuana as a treatment option growing on eve of 7th Prairie Medicinal Harvest Cup Health Canada urged to clear way for medical pot insurance Analysis Loblaw is covering medical marijuana for workers. Will other employers follow? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now