Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Legislation to cut politicians' wages by 3.5% passes in Saskatchewan Legislation has passed to cut the salaries of politicians in Saskatchewan. Social Sharing Cut passed Wednesday but retroactive to April 1 The Canadian Press · Posted: Apr 06, 2017 11:30 AM CT | Last Updated: April 6, 2017 Legislation has passed to cut the salaries of politicians in Saskatchewan. (Kevin O'Connor/CBC) comments Legislation has passed to cut the salaries of politicians in Saskatchewan. The 3.5 per cent cut passed Wednesday, but is retroactive and deemed to have been in force on April 1. Premier Brad Wall has said that all MLAs and cabinet ministers would take a 3.5 per cent salary cut — staff in his office, as well as ministers' offices, will take nine unpaid days off a year to reduce their pay by about 3.5 per cent. 3.5% wage reduction already worked into Sask. budget Sask. MLAs in standoff over pay cuts Both measures are expected to save the government about $500,000 a year. The Opposition NDP supported the pay cut, but also argued that cabinet ministers should take an additional 20 per cent cut to help tackle the province's $1.3-billion deficit. The government is also cutting public sector wages and benefits by 3.5 per cent to save about $250 million. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. NDP boycott meeting to approve MLA wage cuts Sask. MLAs in standoff over pay cuts Northern Sask. social workers not exempt from public pay cut plan Sask. government attempting to keep hands clean amid wage cuts, says labour law prof 3.5% wage reduction already worked into Sask. budget Opinion Saskatchewan's 'austerity budget' comes too late Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now