Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Liberals' pot bill tweaked to remove plant height limit, add timeline for edibles The Liberal government's marijuana bill has returned from a parliamentary committee with a few amendments, including a requirement that they introduce a policy around edibles and other concentrated forms of cannabis within a year Social Sharing Bill C-45 now returns to the House of Commons for third reading Susan Lunn · CBC News · Posted: Oct 06, 2017 2:56 PM ET | Last Updated: October 6, 2017 Pot-infused brownies are divided and packaged at The Growing Kitchen, in Boulder, Colorado. The House of Commons health committee added an amendment to Canada's proposed marijuana legalization that would make edibles legal a year after the bill becomes law. (Brennan Linsley/Associated Press) The Liberal government's marijuana bill has returned from a parliamentary committee with a few tweaks, including a requirement that edibles and other concentrated forms of cannabis become legal within a year of Bill C-45 becoming law. The House of Commons health committee has been studying the bill clause by clause since August, and heard from more than 100 witnesses. Out of that process the committee put forward two key changes to the legislation earlier this week. The original bill had a requirement that anyone who decided to grow marijuana plants at home had to limit their height to 100 centimetres and cap the number of plants they have to four. The updated bill removes any height requirements. Delaying legal edible cannabis products won't keep them off street, MPs told Cannabis black market will thrive without an inclusive legal industry, MPs hear Many witnesses, including police officers, questioned the stipulation, arguing it didn't accomplish anything and it would be hard to enforce. The other amendment would mean edibles and other concentrated forms of cannabis would be available within a year after the bill comes into force.   Minister of Health Ginette Petitpas Taylor arrives to testify before the start of the Commons health committee on Bill C-45, Cannabis Act, on Parliament Hill. (Justin Tang/Canadian Press) Edible cannabis products often contain THC, the psychoactive substance that makes consumers feel high. It can come in many forms including baked goods, candy, honey, dried fruit and, as the committee heard, is sometimes preferred to smoking. The federal government has always promised it would bring in rules for edible products later on, but there was no timeline.  "We heard from public health that limiting legalized cannabis to dried forms would encourage smoking, and there is significant public health consequences associated with smoking cannabis," Liberal MP John Oliver said when presenting the amendment. "We also heard from many consumer groups and users that they felt that having edibles was an important piece of them being able to properly utilize the drug." New Democrat MP Don Davies presented a similar motion. "It's ironic that [the health committee is] going to be legalizing the one form of cannabis that is most heavily ingested by smoking and not legalizing the other forms of cannabis that present less of a harmful health impact, at least on the respiratory system," said Davies. He added he's still concerned about the year-long wait. "While we wait the 12 months, Canadians are still going to be getting edibles, but they're going to be getting them from sources that are completely unregulated," he said. The bill now returns to the House of Commons for third reading. The earliest it could be looked at is the week of Oct. 23, but the Liberals have signaled they would like to deal with it as soon as possible. After clearing the House, it moves onto the Senate, which will do its own study of the legislation. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'Impossible': Senior police officials tell MPs they won't be ready for legal cannabis Delaying legal edible cannabis products won't keep them off street, MPs told Pot-infused cuisine will be the next big trend, food expert predicts Canada's largest grower 'comfortable' with federal government's pot tax plan Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now