Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Licensed, unlicensed: how effective are Vancouver's dispensary bylaws? It's been nearly two years since the City of Vancouver ordered unlicensed dispensaries to shut down or face legal consequences and, while some have paid the $30,000 licensing fee, many more continue to operate outside the rules. Social Sharing Majority of pot shops continue to operate outside the rules Margaret Gallagher, Clare Hennig · CBC News · Posted: Apr 24, 2018 2:10 PM PT | Last Updated: April 24, 2018 Andrew Gordon is the executive vice president of Aura Cannabis, a licensed dispensary. Just down the street from Aura, there are two unlicensed cannabis dispensaries — a common sight throughout the city. (Margaret Gallagher/CBC) comments It's been nearly two years since the City of Vancouver ordered unlicensed dispensaries to shut down or face legal consequences and, while some have paid the $30,000 licensing fee, many more continue to operate outside the rules. According to the city, there are just over 100 marijuana shops in Vancouver as of April 10. Of those, roughly a third are not subject to enforcement — including 15 that have paid the licensing fee, as well as stores that have been issued a development permit but are still waiting for their licence. As legalization looms, more Metro Vancouver cities outlaw dispensaries and cannabis production Medical marijuana shop owner warns of 'upcoming gap in supply' following legalization The 77 others are operating outside city regulations and are subject to enforcement. Despite that, Coun. Kerry Jang, who oversees the city's medical marijuana file, says the licensing program has been a success. "Our goal was really public health goals — keep it away from kids, keep it out of schools, stop the advertising to children and that's worked very well," Jang told CBC's Margaret Gallagher. Don Briere, the owner of Weeds Glass and Gifts, operates in what he describes as a "limbo." (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) Fines, injunctions, enforcement Since that enforcement deadline of April 29, 2016, 44 businesses have either shut down or stopped selling marijuana. The city has also issued thousands of tickets and filed 53 court injunctions in an attempt to have rogue businesses shut down. Jang says the courts have been slow to hear the injunctions and, so far, only 436 of the 2,916 tickets had been paid. Each week, the city issues between 30 to 40 new tickets. The discrepancy between laws and enforcement has left people like Don Briere, owner of Weeds Glass and Gifts, operating in what he describes as a "limbo." Why arresting 'budtenders' won't stop illegal pot shops Despite not having a licence, Briere continues to run four marijuana businesses — down from the 11 he used to have but closed to comply with the new rules.   "We thought that the laws were unfair," he said, citing the difference between regulations in Vancouver and Victoria as one example. "We want to be treated fairly." He's been issued a number of fines and has filed a Charter challenge. His case won't be heard in court until at least September. With legalization looming and the civic election on the horizon, Briere says he thinks the rules could change in the near future. 'Proud to showcase compliance' On the other side of the bylaws are shops like Aura Cannabis on Kingsway which have followed the rules, paid the hefty fee and been licensed for three years. "We've really been proud to showcase compliance in a positive, purposeful light," said Andrew Gordon, the shop's executive vice-president. Abbotsford seeks to banish marijuana magnate Donald Briere Victoria scores legal victory in closing unauthorized pot shops He says he doesn't judge dispensaries that choose not to do the same though. "At the end of the day, that's their battle to fight," Gordon said. "We continue to do what we do." Jang says that legalization will change things in Vancouver, because the province will have the tools to enforce the regulations, similar to the way liquor laws are enforced. "We've said very clearly that if you are in the city's bad books … you are never going to get a licence in the province of British Columbia," he said. With files from Margaret Gallagher and The Early Edition. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Why arresting 'budtenders' won't stop illegal pot shops Victoria scores legal victory in closing unauthorized pot shops As legalization looms, more Metro Vancouver cities outlaw dispensaries and cannabis production Medical marijuana shop owner warns of 'upcoming gap in supply' following legalization Abbotsford seeks to banish marijuana magnate Donald Briere Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now