Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Lloydminster, Sask., casino project receives official green light The Federation of Sovereign Indigenous Nations Chiefs-in-Assembly has voted to allow the Saskatchewan Indian Gaming Authority to expand into the Lloydminster gaming market. Social Sharing New casino will create about 500 jobs CBC News · Posted: Aug 22, 2016 10:12 PM CT | Last Updated: August 23, 2016 The Saskatchewan Indian Gaming Authority runs six casinos around the province, including the Living Sky Casino in Swift Current. (CBC) The Federation of Sovereign Indigenous Nations Chiefs-in-Assembly has voted to allow the Saskatchewan Indian Gaming Authority to expand into the Lloydminster gaming market. The new casino — in the city that straddles the Alberta-Saskatchewan border — would bring the provincial total to nine. FSIN Chief Bobby Cameron said the Lloydminster gaming expansion is another milestone for the Indigenous gaming industry. It's a momentous day and it's some good news for the people of Saskatchewan and our First Nations people.- Chief Bobby Cameron "This is a good example of our inherent and Treaty right to economic development working to build prosperity for our people," he said. According to Cameron the new casino will create about 500 jobs, benefiting families in the area. "Bills are being paid, food's being put on the table," he said. "It's a momentous day and it's some good news for the people of Saskatchewan and our First Nations people.   Jim Reiter, minister responsible for the Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority, said this project has been in the works for a long time.   He said the casino's development marks the continued partnership between the Government of Saskatchewan and the province's First Nations people. "Our government has made it very clear that we need economic development right across the province, including for First Nations," said Reiter. "We've made education the bedrock of that. We've taken some great strides in that direction so we need to be moving in all fronts. Not just gaming, but gaming is certainly an important component of it."    CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. government gives approval for new casino in Lloydminster SaskGaming releases annual report, declares $65.4M income Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now