Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Long-awaited construction of Shelburne health-care clinic expected to start in June The funding announcement was one of three the McNeil government made on Sunday as provincial election speculation grows. Social Sharing The McNeil government announced details Sunday as provincial election speculation grows Anjuli Patil · CBC News · Posted: Apr 23, 2017 7:33 PM AT | Last Updated: July 28, 2017 The new clinic will be made up of family physicians, nurse practitioners, a family practice nurse and support staff. (iStock) As speculation grows that a provincial election is coming, the McNeil government announced Sunday that construction on a long-awaited Shelburne, N.S., health-care clinic is expected to begin in June. The community will also be getting two new doctors and two new nurses to the area as well, a news release stated. Penny Smith, the warden for the Municipality of the District of Shelburne, welcomed the news. "During the past few years, our community has suffered because of doctor shortages and a lack of required health care professionals, which has led to hospital emergency department closures," said Smith. "We've actually had people leave our community to be able to access a family doctor, so having this facility is thrilling news for us in that it's something our community needs and it's a need we've had for quite a long time." 7-year wait Residents have been fighting for renovations and the expansion of a medical centre that was closed more than seven years ago. The centre, located next to the Roseway Hospital, was home to a group of general practitioners and was closed by the province so that it could undergo renovations. McNeil announced the tender for construction will be issued Monday. The new clinic will be made up of family physicians, nurse practitioners, a family practice nurse and support staff, the news release stated. Construction of new Shelburne's new health clinic begins in June: <a href="https://t.co/sqq2hbYYsD">https://t.co/sqq2hbYYsD</a> <a href="https://t.co/s0AnADmtr6">pic.twitter.com/s0AnADmtr6</a>&mdash;@StephenMcNeil The hospital announcement was made the same day the province delivered two other announcements — funding to repair and re-open the Perkins House Museum and an initiative for homeowners and landlords in the Tufts Cove area to spruce up their properties. The announcements also happened on the same day the provincial NDP launched its campaign. The timing of the announcement didn't raise any issues with Smith. "It's such a positive event for us. We're just happy that it's been announced for us today," she said. Smith said with an older population and plenty of residents working in the fishery, health care is critical for the community. The municipality has already contributed $450,000 to the facility, she said. With files from Richard Woodbury CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories NDP launches campaign ahead of Nova Scotia election call Roseway Hospital medical centre plans to be announced this summer, says province Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now