Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Manitoba child advocate to get expanded powers under proposed law The Manitoba government is giving the province's children's advocate new powers to investigate and report on services to young people. Social Sharing Government's bill based on recommendations from Phoenix Sinclair inquiry The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 02, 2017 3:22 PM CT | Last Updated: March 2, 2017 The inquiry into the 2005 beating death of five-year-old Phoenix Sinclair recommended giving Manitoba's children's advocate more investigative powers. (Phoenix Sinclair Inquiry) The Manitoba government is giving the province's children's advocate new powers to investigate and report on services to young people. A bill now before the legislature would end a restriction on the advocate's mandate that focuses only on the child welfare system. Children's advocate pleased by more freedom under promised PC legislation The bill would allow the advocate to investigate how children and young adults are treated in the justice system, in health care and other areas. The legislation would also give the advocate more independence from the government and new powers to investigate serious injuries as well as deaths. Families Minister Scott Fielding says the advocate will also get new authority to issue public reports. The bill is based on recommendations from the public inquiry into the death of five-year-old Phoenix Sinclair, who was beaten to death after falling through the cracks of the child welfare system. Manitoba failing on Phoenix Sinclair inquiry recommendations, report says CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Children's advocate pleased by more freedom under promised PC legislation Manitoba failing on Phoenix Sinclair inquiry recommendations, report says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now