Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Manitoba police watchdog charges RCMP officer with assault An RCMP officer from Thompson has been charged with assault causing bodily harm. Social Sharing Const. Jeremiah Dumont-Fontaine is scheduled to appear in court on Feb. 25 CBC News · Posted: Jan 10, 2020 10:56 AM CT | Last Updated: January 10, 2020 A 50-year-old man was injured during an arrest by RCMP in Thompson earlier this year. The IIU has authorized charges against an RCMP constable. (Trevor Brine/CBC) An RCMP officer from Thompson has been charged with assault causing bodily harm. The charges stem from an incident on June 5, 2019, when officers were called about a man causing a disturbance at the Thompson Inn in the northern Manitoba city. A 50-year-old man was arrested, but in the process he sustained a cut to his forehead that needed to be stitched at the hospital, according to the Independent Investigation Unit. The IIU announced in July that it was looking into the incident. In a release issued on Friday, IIU civilian director Zane Tessler said there are reasonable and probable grounds to believe a criminal offence occurred. As a result, he authorized charges to be laid against Const. Jeremiah Dumont-Fontaine. Dumont-Fontaine is scheduled to appear in court on Feb. 25 in Thompson. As the matter is now before the courts, the IIU said it would not make any further comments. Police watchdog charges Virden RCMP officer with 3 counts of dangerous driving Police watchdog investigating after teenage girl hurt during Thompson arrest RCMP officer charged with sexual assault, another with assault in 2 separate incidents: police watchdog Thompson RCMP officer accused of domestic assault CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now