Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Manitoba police watchdog seeks witnesses after man injured during Thompson arrest The Independent Investigation Unit of Manitoba hopes someone saw an arrest at the Thompson Inn on June 5. Social Sharing Man required stitches for cut sustained during June 5 arrest: Independent Investigation Unit of Manitoba CBC News · Posted: Jul 10, 2019 12:26 PM CT | Last Updated: July 10, 2019 Manitoba's police watchdog is hoping someone saw the RCMP's arrest of a man at the Thompson Inn on June 5. (Jeorge Sadi/CBC) The Independent Investigation Unit of Manitoba is hoping to talk to witnesses of an arrest in Thompson, Man., last month, which has prompted an investigation by the agency. RCMP in the northern Manitoba city responded to a call about a man causing a disturbance at the Thompson Inn around 6 p.m. on June 5. The man was arrested, but in the processes sustained a cut to his forehead that needed to be stitched at the Thompson General Hospital.   The Independent Investigation Unit of Manitoba, which looks into serious incident involving police in the province, was contacted by RCMP about the injury on June 21. "Although this is not a serious injury as defined by regulations, the IIU civilian director has determined it is in the public interest for the agency to investigate," the IIU said in a news release Wednesday.  The police watchdog is asking anyone who may have witnessed the arrest to contact them at 1-844-667-6060. More from CBC Manitoba:  CBC InvestigatesVulnerable teens lacked supervision in foster home without water or adequate food 5 school buses burn in fire at St. Mary's Road depot Rain soaks southern Manitoba, snuffs out traffic lights in Winnipeg CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now