Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI Marijuana legalization brings opportunity for P.E.I. producer The Island's only licensed producer of cannabis is hoping the federal governments' move to regulate the sale of marijuana starting July 1, 2018 will present new opportunities for business. Social Sharing Canada's Island Garden hopes for future expansion CBC News · Posted: Mar 27, 2017 5:00 PM AT | Last Updated: March 27, 2017 The Canadian government has set July 1, 2018 as the day legislation regulating the distribution and sale of cannabis will come into effect. (CBC) The Island's only licensed producer of cannabis is hoping the federal government's move to regulate the sale of marijuana starting July 1, 2018 will present new opportunities for business.  Canada's Island Garden received its license to grow cannabis last summer, and was certified to sell medicinal marijuana in February of this year.  P.E.I.'s first medical marijuana facility ready to harvest Liberals to announce marijuana will be legal by July 1, 2018 Edwin Jewell, president of Canada's Island Garden said he supports the change. "Certainly, if you're in the cannabis business that's a positive development for us."  "It increases the potential customer base and, you know, helps ensure the cannabis consumers are buying is safe." New Legislation While Ottawa would license producers, the responsibility for the sale and distribution of cannabis would fall on the provincial governments. Jewell said that the provinces need to be competitive in their pricing of the product. Edwin Jewell stands in nursery room of medicinal marijuana plants. (Laura Meader/CBC) "If the provinces expect to be able to sell cannabis, then their taxation and their pricing will have to be in line with what the competition is doing," he said. "If they price it too high and it's cheaper on the street then that's where people will go." Effects on business The new legislation would also allow for households to grow up to four plants, but Jewell doesn't think this will have much of an effect on business. He compares it to beer or wine being produced by consumers at home.  Canada's Island Garden, P.E.I.'s first medical marijuana factory, is licensed to sell their product and hopes legalization brings an expansion of their business. (Nicole Williams/CBC) "There'll certainly be people who would enjoy to grow their cannabis at home and I think that's great," he said. "But there's lots of people who will just say 'It's easier to go to the store and buy it than to go through the grief of growing it on my own.'" Expanding operations Jewell says Canada's Island Garden is hoping to raise $20 million to expand on-site operations through private investors. Since becoming a licensed seller he says the company has seen a boost in interest and the coming changes to the federal rules will present even more. Edwin Jewell shows a marijuana plant that is ready for harvest. (Laura Meader/CBC) "We have the opportunity to grow our business, to create new jobs and to bring new money into P.E.I.," he said. "I think it's going to be a great opportunity for Islanders for sure." MORE P.E.I. NEWS | P.E.I. schools sign agreements in China MORE P.E.I. NEWS | March forecast to end cold and snowy? With files from Krystalle Ramlakhan CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Exclusive Liberals to announce marijuana will be legal by July 1, 2018 Photos P.E.I.'s first medical marijuana facility ready to harvest Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now