Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Marijuana dispensary raids of Tasty Budds lead to 69 charges RCMP arrested 10 people after searching four homes and five Tasty Budds marijuana dispensaries in Nova Scotia. Social Sharing RCMP say they searched stores in Cole Harbour, Windsor, Lower Sackville, Antigonish and Dartmouth CBC News · Posted: Aug 25, 2017 1:33 PM AT | Last Updated: August 25, 2017 Tasty Budds Cole Harbour location was one of five raided on Aug. 24. (Paul Palmeter/CBC) Ten people are facing a total of 69 drug and weapons charges after RCMP searched four homes and five Tasty Budds marijuana dispensaries in Nova Scotia.  Police say the group was using businesses to traffic cocaine and marijuana and selling drugs knowing they would be sold again for criminal profit. They were also allegedly selling marijuana without knowing whether the products were laced with more dangerous chemicals, an RCMP news release said.  "They are misleading the public by pretending to be professional establishments using the guise of the storefronts to commit crime and profit from the proceeds of their crime," Insp. Jason Popik said in the release. Police seized $10,000 in cash, two guns, three ATMs and large amounts of marijuana, cannabis oil, edibles, shatter and hash. (RCMP) Medical marijuana dispensary owner not worried about police raids The stores were located in Cole Harbour, Lower Sackville, Halifax, Antigonish and Windsor.  During the raids, police seized a loaded handgun, a shotgun, three ATMs, around 30 kilograms of marijuana, 10 kilograms of cannabis oil, 45 kilograms of cannabis edibles such as gummi bears, seven kilograms of shatter, about 250 grams of hash and $10,000 in cash.  69 charges laid Nine men and one woman were arrested. They range in age from 25 to 46. By noon Friday, all but two people had been released. One man is scheduled to appear in Dartmouth provincial court this afternoon and police say they expect to lay charges against a man in custody. Two men are due in Windsor provincial court Oct. 17. Five men are scheduled to appear in Dartmouth provincial court Oct. 25. A woman is also due to appear the same day in Antigonish provincial court. In July 2016, the Nova Scotia Utility and Review Board backed the Halifax Regional Municipality in the denial of a business occupancy permit to Tasty Budds in Cole Harbour. (Paul Palmeter/CBC) RCMP spokesperson Cpl. Jennifer Clarke said unknown chemicals were being used to extract the cannabis resin, and investigators are concerned about the potential health effects on consumers. "It's scary to think what these chemicals could be doing to people," Clarke said. "We don't know." Clarke said it's up to the relevant municipalities to decide whether or not to shut down the dispensaries involved. Cole Harbour marijuana dispensary Tasty Budd's loses in appeal process CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Cole Harbour marijuana dispensary Tasty Budd's loses in appeal process New Halifax cannabis clinic hopes to be alternative to opioids Halifax denies medical marijuana dispensary business permit Ban on medical marijuana patients growing own pot struck down by Federal Court Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now