Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Marlene Bird, Leo LaChance cases formative for new Saskatoon police chief Saskatoon's new chief of police says several high-profile cases have influenced his career and what he thinks about policing. Social Sharing Troy Cooper says high-profile cases involving Indigenous people taught him about homelessness, victimization CBC News · Posted: Jan 18, 2018 1:42 PM CT | Last Updated: January 18, 2018 Before being named the new chief of the Saskatoon Police Service, Troy Cooper served 31 years with the Prince Albert Police Service. (CBC) While there have been many cases in Troy Cooper's lengthy police career, the killing of Leo LaChance continues to stand out. Before being named the new chief of the Saskatoon Police Service, he served 31 years with the Prince Albert Police Service. Cooper was one of the first officers on scene after LaChance, an Indigenous trapper, was shot and killed by white supremacist Carney Nerland in Prince Albert in 1991. Troy Cooper will be Saskatoon's first Métis police chief Enforcement coming to illegal marijuana dispensaries in Saskatoon, says new police chief LaChance died after he was shot after entering Nerland's pawn shop. Nerland fired an assault rifle at the floor, striking LaChance in the back and killing him. For a young man in a small community to all of a sudden be grappling with white supremacy and racism, and all of the media attention, that was a little overwhelming.- Troy Cooper Nerland pleaded guilty to manslaughter and received a four-year sentence. The case caused outrage in the Indigenous community and led to a judicial inquiry. "For a young man in a small community to all of a sudden be grappling with white supremacy and racism, and all of the media attention, that was a little overwhelming," Cooper told CBC Radio's Saskatoon Morning. Since then, Cooper has continued to see cases of severe violence, many of them directed at Indigenous people in Prince Albert. An inquiry heard Carney Nerland, the man who shot Leo LaChance, was involved with white supremacist groups. In 1990, CBC News videotaped Nerland at a meeting in Alberta wearing a Nazi armband. (CBC ) One of the most notable cases was that of Marlene Bird, a homeless woman who was brutally beaten and set on fire in 2014.  "I realized that cases, sometimes, were bigger than the individuals involved," he said.  "I think it shaped not only my perspective, but the entire community's perspective on issues bigger than crime — but homelessness and victimization, Indigenous issues and that sort of thing." Marlene Bird was brutally beaten and burned in 2014. (CBC) Street checks continuing Cooper, a Métis man from the town of Big River, said he's built strong relationships with Indigenous people during his time in Prince Albert.   "I think that's what's going to benefit me in Saskatoon," he said. "I think the authentic, trusting relationships that I have are going to continue in Saskatoon and I'll be able to build on that." However, he said he has no plans on stopping street checks, where police detain suspicious-looking people and ask for their ID. Many Indigenous people have called the practice a thinly veiled version of racial profiling. Cooper said the checks are an important part of policing. "That practice comes under criticism if it comes under prejudice or bias," he said. "I think there can be strong policy around it and strong messaging from the organization about what the expectations are — and I think there can be some guard against implicit bias, where you have proper cultural components in your organization." Cooper will take over the job on Feb. 28. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now