Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News New Brunswick Medical marijuana dispensary owner not worried about police raids The owner of a new medical marijuana dispensary that opened in Riverview Friday says he's not worried about police raids. The federal government has said legislation to legalize marijuana will be introduced next year, but until then storefront dispensaries are operating in a grey area. Social Sharing Tasty Budds opened its first New Brunswick dispensary in Riverview Friday David Bartlett · CBC News · Posted: Jun 27, 2016 11:44 AM AT | Last Updated: June 27, 2016 Tasty Budds opened its first New Brunswick medical marijuana dispensary in Riverview Friday. The company already has four locations in Nova Scotia. (David Bartlett/CBC) The owner of a new medical marijuana dispensary that opened in Riverview Friday says he's not worried about police raiding his business. The federal government has said legislation to legalize marijuana will be introduced next year, but until then storefront dispensaries are operating in a grey area.  Looming Canada Post work stoppage has medical marijuana producers scrambling OrganiGram gets $990K from New Brunswick government Toronto vows to crack down on medical marijuana dispensaries During an interview with Information Morning Moncton Malachy McMeekin, the owner of Tasty Budds on Coverdale Road, said he's not worried about a police raid, despite raids at some dispensaries in Toronto. "If you look at where the dispensaries are that got raided, most of them were in the wrong (municipal) zones, and they also were serving people that didn't have a medical license. We're sticking within the guidelines," he said. But he says there is a clear need for a dispensary in New Brunswick. "We have four (dispensaries) in Nova Scotia and every day we see people coming from New Brunswick," said McMeekin. He said the shop will only serve people who are 19 years old and have a valid prescription. "We don't serve anyone who doesn't have a full medical license from a doctor, and then we verify the prescription and make sure that it is a valid prescription, and then we serve you," McMeekin said. To verify that the prescription is valid, store staff will call the prescribing doctor. Storefront dispensary has benefits McMeekin said a store front operation is more customer friendly than ordering medical marijuana online or over the phone for a number of reasons. "They can actually get it that day. See, feel, touch what it is. There's no minimum purchase," he said. According to McMeekin ordering from these other dispensaries means the customer has to have a credit card or they have to pay with a money order, which will add to their cost. "You've gotta understand, there's people out there, they don't really have the money to do the full order, so they're sort of punching the people that don't have money," said McMeekin. He also said these dispensaries often require a minimum purchase of 15 to 20 grams before they will waive the shipping fee And then customers still have to wait for their medical marijuana to arrive at their homes. Besides marijuana in plant form, McMeekin said Tasty Budds also has some edible marijuana products as well as cannabis oil. "It's all coming from local producers that are in the grandfather clause, So they've been grandfathered in. They are allowed to grow," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Looming Canada Post work stoppage has medical marijuana producers scrambling OrganiGram gets $990K from New Brunswick government Toronto vows to crack down on medical marijuana dispensaries Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now