Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Medical cannabis clinic to open in Saskatoon There is a new clinic opening in Saskatoon that will help people in need of medical cannabis to obtain a prescription and arrange legal access to the drug. Social Sharing 'We believe that it is a very healthy option,' says head of patient care Danny Kerslake · CBC News · Posted: Jan 20, 2017 11:37 AM CT | Last Updated: January 20, 2017 The Saskatoon clinic will assist patients with accessing the medical cannabis they need to treat a number of ailments. (Submitted by Natural Health Services) There is a new clinic opening in Saskatoon that will help people in need of medical cannabis to obtain a prescription and arrange legal access to the drug. We are looking to help people get out of bed in the morning.- Kait Shane Natural Health Services runs medical cannabis clinics in Calgary, Medicine Hat, Edmonton and now Saskatoon. "It's been a few generations now that we've been told that cannabis is evil," said Kait Shane, the company's director of patient care. Natural Health Services doesn't view it that way. "By opening a medical cannabis clinic in Saskatoon we're able to give this community the opportunity to address and help alleviate symptoms of many serious medical conditions that may not respond to traditional interventions," said Shane. "We believe that it is a very healthy option." Clinic adheres to Health Canada guidelines  The clinic will have a complete team of physicians, nurses and other experts to help patients. Shane said they also follow all the strict laws and conditions set out by Health Canada and only use suppliers who are licensed. "We are looking to help people get out of bed in the morning," she added. The Natural Health Services clinic will be located at 160 Second Avenue N. The company will host a public open house on Saturday from 9 a.m to 4 p.m. CST. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Billboards advertise unlicensed medical marijuana, Regina police call it '100% illegal' Saskatoon police chief says cops getting on-board with legalized pot Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now