Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Medical marijuana shop owner warns of 'upcoming gap in supply' following legalization Recreational marijuana is set to be legalized in Canada by the summer but one medical marijuana shop owner is concerned that could paradoxically mean less cannabis is available for the first few months. Social Sharing After licensing, only marijuana from the B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch can legally be sold Clare Hennig · CBC News · Posted: Apr 09, 2018 1:54 PM PT | Last Updated: April 9, 2018 When the federal Liberal government announced it would be legalizing marijuana, it left it up to the provinces to license the product and oversee its distribution and sale. In B.C., only marijuana from the Liquor Distribution Branch can be sold for recreational use. (CBC News) comments Recreational marijuana is set to be legalized in Canada by the summer but one medical marijuana shop owner is concerned that could paradoxically mean less cannabis is available for the first few months. James Whitehead owns three Medijuana Dispensaries and the recently opened Cannabis Medical Centre in Victoria.  "I do foresee an upcoming gap in supply," he told Gregor Craigie, the host of CBC's On The Island. Whitehead said there is still confusion among dispensary owners as to what will be required to obtain a non-medical cannabis retail licence and whether having owned an illegal dispensary previously will have a negative impact. B.C. unveils pot plans: marijuana to be sold in standalone government stores, separate from liquor Victoria ready to crack down on non-compliant pot shops One thing is clearly laid out in the province's Private Retail Licensing Guide though: once a licence is granted, only cannabis obtained from the B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch can be legally sold on the shelves. "You will be immediately required to cease selling cannabis that is coming from any outside sources," said Whitehead. "I anticipate that there will a fairly substantial gap between the issuing of licenses and the actual reality of being able to pick up the phone and order cannabis stock." 'Blow out sales' Dispensaries will still be able to sell accessories and do educational outreach programs, but the risk of fines and licence revocation will stop them selling previous unauthorized cannabis products, he said. "In the lead-up days to when licensing is actually being issued, you are going to see all sorts of blow out sales — similar to a going-out-of-business sale," Whitehead said. "There will be a need to liquidate all current stock." Weed 101: New B.C. college program teaches retail side of pot As legalization looms, more Metro Vancouver cities outlaw dispensaries and cannabis production Police will be allowed to enter and inspect dispensaries to make sure they are compliant with the legal requirements, the licensing guide states. It's not just recreational users who will be impacted by the "upcoming dark period," Whitehead said. "I'm concerned that if there is a large interruption to the supply chain — that if many people, in order to comply with the licensing requirements, have to shut down — people that are accessing cannabis for medical purposes are going to see an interruption in what up till now has been a very comfortable form of access for them," he said.   With files from On The Island. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Weed 101: New B.C. college program teaches retail side of pot As legalization looms, more Metro Vancouver cities outlaw dispensaries and cannabis production B.C. unveils pot plans: marijuana to be sold in standalone government stores, separate from liquor Victoria ready to crack down on non-compliant pot shops Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now