Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics More Canadians overall smoking pot than in 1985, says StatsCan Cannabis consumption has more than doubled among Canadians 15 and older over a 30-year span, according to a new Statistics Canada report. Social Sharing Use among younger people in past decade has actually remained stable or decreased CBC News · Posted: Feb 21, 2018 9:26 AM ET | Last Updated: February 21, 2018 Statistics Canada found an increase in the number of Canadians who used cannabis between 1985 and 2015. (David Donnelly/CBC) comments Cannabis consumption has more than doubled among Canadians 15 and older over a 30-year span, according to a new Statistics Canada report. But Wednesday's report shows that pot use over the last decade actually has remained stable or decreased among young people. The national statistics agency has been trying to compile a picture of marijuana use in Canada as the Liberal government moves ahead with plans to legalize the drug later this year. Statistics Canada looking down the drain to determine levels of pot consumption Pot consumers paying less than $7 a gram, Statistics Canada survey finds For the first time, Statistics Canada compared nine national household population surveys that touched on cannabis use starting in 1985 to get a sense of long-term trends. It found cannabis use among Canadians aged 15 years and older went from 5.6 per cent in 1985 to 12.3 per cent in 2015. The report also found that trends differ between young men and women. Between 2004 and 2015, use remained stable among boys 15 to 17, but decreased among women in the same age group. "We do know from other studies pertaining to youth that factors such as fear of the consequences from parents or from the negative of cannabis itself could have impact on cannabis use for young people," said Michelle Rotermann, senior analyst with Statistics Canada's health division. Pot use dipped for both men and women aged 18 to 24 during that same 11-year span, but increased among Canadians 25 and older. "One of the things that's changing is respondents' attitudes toward cannabis use over time, as well as perhaps their willingness to declare drug use in a survey," said Rotermann. The results are based on several national surveys, including the: Canadian Tobacco, Alcohol and Drugs Survey. Canadian Tobacco Use Monitoring Survey. 1985 Health Promotion Survey. They all asked about past-year cannabis use and had target populations that included youth and adults in every province. The agency did note that while the nine surveys used can be combined to estimate the evolution of cannabis consumption, they were designed originally for different needs and are not perfectly comparable. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Substance use among Ontario students down but concerns up over fentanyl use: report Teen cigarette and pot smoking rates fall StatsCan uses crowdsourcing to collect data on pot prices Trudeau's Senate point man prepared to limit debate on cannabis bill Analysis Why the cannabis tax will only be one small part of government windfall: Don Pittis Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now