Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Municipalities worried Sask. is lagging on pot legalization The Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association is urging the provincial government to reveal its plans for regulating marijuana, saying municipalities can’t prepare for the change until they know the provincial approach. Social Sharing SUMA says province is holding up municipal planning CBC News · Posted: Nov 01, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: November 1, 2017 SUMA says municipalities are worried they won't have enough time to prepare for the legalization of marijuana in 2018. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) The Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association is urging the provincial government to reveal its plans for regulating marijuana, saying municipalities can't prepare for the change until they know the provincial approach. SUMA issued a news release Tuesday calling on the province to start consulting and provide a legislative framework. Brad Wall disagrees with mayors that pot tax revenue should go to cities President Gordon Barnhart said municipalities are on the front lines of controlling cannabis production, sales and consumption. "Municipalities have to worry about where they will allow cannabis producers and retailers to set up shop, and how we will enforce bylaws on buildings, production, and consumption," said Barnhart. "We can't even begin some of that work until we know what kind of regulatory system the province will put in place." He said municipalities expressed their concern during seven regional meetings two weeks ago.  Wall says review underway Premier Brad Wall said in his 2017 throne speech last week that the provincial government was in the midst of a review process that includes an online public consultation. So far he said it has received almost 35,000 responses. Wall said the review is guided by four objectives: preventing the growth of the underground marijuana market, restricting access to minors, ensuring road and workplace safety and protecting public health. Saskatoon, Regina mayors want marijuana tax revenue to cover municipal costs tied to legalization Sask. government launches cannabis survey as part of 'aggressive' legalization timeline: minister But Barnhart suggested Saskatchewan is lagging behind other provinces. "Already, I'm hearing from members who have producers and retailers interested in their communities," said Barnhart. "July 1, 2018 will be here before we know it — whether we are ready or not." SUMA wants to share tax profits SUMA wants the legislation to include provisions for some tax profits to go to municipalities to help pay for enforcement. Premier Brad Wall has previously said he thinks money brought in through taxes should go towards education and preventing impaired driving, but not to mayors. Regina marijuana dispensaries grow to at least 10 storefronts in city Pot legalization may reduce stigma around smoking, paraphernalia His government has pushed to delay the date of legalization but the federal government has maintained the July 1, 2018 deadline. With eight months until the planned change, Barnhart said the province needs to act now. "We're just really saying, let's have consultations, let's make sure that we meet these deadlines that seem to be looming, and time goes by quicker than we realize," said Barnhart. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Saskatoon, Regina mayors want marijuana tax revenue to cover municipal costs tied to legalization Brad Wall disagrees with mayors that pot tax revenue should go to cities Sask. government launches cannabis survey as part of 'aggressive' legalization timeline: minister Regina marijuana dispensaries grow to at least 10 storefronts in city Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now