Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Murray Brewster Defence and security Murray Brewster is senior defence writer for CBC News, based in Ottawa. He has covered the Canadian military and foreign policy from Parliament Hill for over a decade. Among other assignments, he spent a total of 15 months on the ground covering the Afghan war for The Canadian Press. Prior to that, he covered defence issues and politics for CP in Nova Scotia for 11 years and was bureau chief for Standard Broadcast News in Ottawa. Follow @Murray_Brewster on Twitter More from Murray Brewster Latest from Murray Brewster Analysis The golden silence over NORAD renewal and the voices who want to shatter it Canada will soon embark on negotiations with the U.S. to renew North American defence arrangements. It is the policy issue which the Liberal government has, for years, avoided talking about, mostly because of the bruising ballistic missile defence debate of the early 2000s. Politics |March 17 Senior female officer quits Canadian Forces, says she's 'sickened' by reports of sexual misconduct One of the most prominent women in the Canadian military has resigned, saying she is “disgusted” by ongoing reports of sexual misconduct in the Armed Forces and dismayed that it has taken this long for the problem to come to the fore. Politics |March 17 Former soldier expected to plead guilty in high-profile sexual assault involving subordinate The soldier at the centre of one of the higher-profile sexual assault cases in the Canadian military has ended years of legal battles and intends to plead guilty. Politics |March 14 Sajjan says allegation of sexual misconduct against top military commander came to him 3 years ago Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan acknowledged Friday that an allegation of sexual misconduct against the country's former top military commander was raised with him three years ago by the Canadian Forces ombudsman. Politics |March 12 Parts of Canada's military culture permit 'racism, discrimination, harassment,' says acting chief The acting head of Canada's military made his first public comments today in the wake of sexual misconduct allegations against senior commanders — an effort to restore the confidence of the nation and rank-and-file members shaken by the ongoing scandal that engulfed his predecessors. Politics |March 12 PMO aware of ombudsman's misconduct allegation against Vance in 2018, but not the details: Trudeau Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says his office was made aware of allegations of misconduct against Gen. Jonathan Vance in 2018 — but wasn't informed of their substance because a Privy Council Office investigation had not been conclusive. Politics |March 11 Analysis Ghosts of scandals past stalk Canadian military as sexual misconduct fallout grows The growing political fight over sexual misconduct allegations in the Canadian military is shaping up into a once-in-a-generation scandal. The steady drip of allegations has seasoned military officers worried about a loss of credibility and wondering how long the political patience will last. Politics |March 10 Canadian military gets its 1st female vice-chief of the defence staff in major shakeup An important shakeup is happening at the top of the Canadian military. The deputy commander of the Armed Forces has been replaced. Lt-Gen. Mike Rouleau will step aside as vice-chief of the defence staff to make way for Lt.-Gen. Frances Allen, the country's first woman deputy commander. Politics |March 9 Trudeau says he still has confidence in Sajjan after ombudsman's testimony Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said today he still has confidence in his defence minister despite the ongoing sexual misconduct scandal in the Canadian military — and testimony from a former ombudsman claiming Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan mishandled concerns about possible misconduct by Gen. Jonathan Vance. Politics |March 6 Sajjan had a duty to pursue misconduct claim against Vance, say former military members Women who experienced sexual assault in the military say they're disappointed and dismayed by Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan's alleged refusal to look at evidence of possible misconduct involving the former chief of the defence staff. Politics |March 5Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now