Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan New party leaders may change the dynamics of Sask. politics Opinion polls in recent months have suggested the gap of support between the Saskatchewan Party and the NDP has narrowed considerably, especially after last spring's tough-medicine budget. Social Sharing Brad Wall announced his retirement back in August after a decade as premier The Canadian Press · Posted: Dec 26, 2017 9:52 AM CT | Last Updated: December 26, 2017 Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall speaks to reporters following his last question period at the Saskatchewan Legislature on Thursday, December 7, 2017. (Mark Taylor/The Canadian Press) comments The old saying that the only constant in life is change may best sum up the coming year in Saskatchewan politics. The governing Saskatchewan Party, the Opposition New Democrats and even the seatless Liberals are to elect new leaders in the coming months, and that could affect the decade-long political status quo in the province. Opinion polls in recent months have suggested the gap of support between the Saskatchewan Party and the NDP has narrowed considerably, especially after last spring's tough-medicine budget. And the governing party is losing Premier Brad Wall, whose personal approval ratings have continued to score high, to retirement. "The type of leader that the Sask. Party needs is essentially a Brad Wall without the negative aspects of the Brad Wall legacy," says Joseph Garcea, who teaches political studies at the University of Saskatchewan. "To some extent, they need a Brad Wall without baggage." Where does Sask.'s future premier stand on legal cannabis, the GTH? Help from premier's office for Sask. Party candidate creates impression of 'favouritism': political expert The Brad Wall 'brand' Garcea pointed to last spring's budget, which raised the provincial sales tax and included cuts to libraries that were later reversed following public protests.  Joe Garcea says the new Sask. Party leader needs to be like Brad Wall but without the baggage. (University of Saskatchewan) He also cited ongoing controversy into a $21-million land purchase west of Regina. The auditor general found the government overpaid for the land and did not follow proper procedures. That prompted an RCMP investigation. The NDP is hoping to capitalize on the controversies and sees an opening with Wall's departure. "For the last 10 years, the premier — Brad Wall — has been the brand of the Sask. Party and ... with him stepping down and a new leader taking over, it's going to be very different, I think," says interim NDP leader Nicole Sarauer. Garcea says a lot will depend on how much each party can unite following the leadership campaigns, which can often be divisive. He also says the spring budget could help shape voters' minds for the 2020 election. Rob Clarke drops out of Sask. Party leadership race Education cuts hurt son with autism, says Midale mom Wall says humility and practicality are key As for Wall, he has some advice for whoever takes over: stay humble, avoid rigid ideology and admit mistakes, such as the library cuts. "Be humble and be pragmatic," he says. "We're a free-enterprise party. We believe in markets. But we also have to respect that Saskatchewan people aren't really interested in ideology ... they're interested in results and they're also interested in a government reflecting their priorities." Wall also suggests his party should avoid getting into debates over socially divisive, federally governed issues such as abortion. (Karen Bleier/AFP/Getty Images) Wall also suggests his party should avoid getting into debates over socially divisive, federally governed issues such as abortion. Three of the leadership candidates running to replace Wall recently talked about their anti-abortion views to a group called Right Now, which is dedicated to electing anti-abortion politicians. 'Life begins at conception': Anti-abortion group names Ken Cheveldayoff top Sask. Party candidate One candidate, Ken Cheveldayoff, told The Canadian Press that abortions should be allowed only for women whose lives are in jeopardy and not for victims of sexual assault. He later walked back from that stance and said any sex assault victim has the right to make the choice to have an abortion. Wall said provincial leaders should stick to provincial matters. Focus on issues here in Sask. "There will be (some people) that are interested in socially conservative or socially liberal issues, and that's fine. But at the provincial level, where we don't really have jurisdiction over these things, I don't understand why we would ... focus any great deal of resources on these issues .... "We do have a lot more to do with the economy and with health," he said. "Let's focus on those. I think that's reflective of the priority of the vast majority of Saskatchewan people and that would be my advice." Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall retiring from politics Wall, who announced his resignation in August but is staying on until his successor is chosen at the end of January, says he has yet to line up a new job. "When the new leader is chosen ... I'm going to probably take a bit of a break, but I'll be looking for work in earnest thereafter." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Q&A Sask. Party supporters 'don't feel as warm' in party as they once felt, says leadership candidate Gord Wyant Q&A Sask. Party leadership candidate Alanna Koch says she would do immediate review on insurance tax Q&A It's time for Sask. Party renewal, says leadership candidate Tina Beaudry-Mellor Q&A Sask. Party leadership candidate Scott Moe says population growth is No. 1 priority Jason Kenney enters cross-border licence plate spat Complaint justified but no evidence questions provided to Alanna Koch's campaign, says Sask. Party decision Sask. Party brings in $385K in memberships since leadership race began Saskatchewan sells STC assets for $29M, slightly more than appraised value Sask. might need larger police force for legalized marijuana: finance minister Sask. Party leadership candidates 'living in the shadow of Brad Wall': prof Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now