Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan New Sask. hospital shouldn't be Catholic-run, Humboldt council says When a new hospital is built in Humboldt, Sask., to replace the current Catholic-owned hospital, it should be publicly-run, city council says. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 25, 2007 4:15 PM CT | Last Updated: January 25, 2007 When a new hospital is built in Humboldt, Sask., to replace the current Catholic-owned hospital, it should be publicly-run, city council says. The board of St. Elizabeth's Hospital banned tubal ligation, the female sterilization procedure, last summer, saying it was contrary to Catholic health ethics. The ban split the community, with some supporting it and others saying the choice of a tubal ligation is a decision that should be between a patient and her doctor. The board relaxed the policy in December, allowing the operation —which involves cutting or tying the Fallopian tubes —when the "primary purpose is to benefit the total health of the person." However, that didn't satisfy some who pointed out that even with the change, the hospital was still required to follow Catholic guidelines. Construction on a new St. Elizabeth's Hospital, at a cost of $34 million, is expected to begin later this year. On Monday, Humboldt city council passed a resolution to tell Catholic authorities and the Health Department that it favours making the new hospital publicly-run. Humboldt has also called on the Catholic Health Corporation and the Saskatoon Health Region to change how things are doneat the current building. It wants to keep "spiritual care" as part of the hospital, but is against "regulatory provisions" that may interfere with doctor and patient decisions. Humboldt is about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Woman denied tubal ligation files human rights complaint Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now