Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon New poll shows lowest support for Sask. Party in 8 years but premier 'surprised' by backing after budget Polling firm Insightrix says an unpopular budget has cost the Saskatchewan Party significant support. Social Sharing Insightrix poll shows 44 per cent of decided voters would cast vote for party CBC News · Posted: Apr 20, 2017 6:52 AM CT | Last Updated: April 20, 2017 A recent Insightrix online poll shows the Saskatchewan Party at its lowest level of support in the polling company's history. (Trent Peppler/CBC) comments Polling firm Insightrix says an unpopular budget has cost the Saskatchewan Party significant support. A recent poll showed 44 per cent support for the governing party.  It's a sharp drop from the 2016 election, where 62 per cent of voters cast their support for the party. A recent Insightrix poll shows a sharp drop off in Sask. Party support. (Insightrix) Insightrix said the polling results are the lowest they have observed since the company began polling in 2009. Historically, the party has polled anywhere between 54 per cent and 67 per cent. The poll showed 40 per cent support for the provincial NDP, 7 per cent for the Progressive Conservatives, 5 per cent for the provincial Liberals and 4 per cent for the Green Party. Twenty-five per cent of respondents said they were undecided. Negative response to provincial budget Respondents were also asked to comment on the 2017 provincial budget. The company said most of the responses were negative, and people commonly used words like disappointed, disgusted and surprised. In the word cloud image below, the larger the word, the more often it was used by respondents. In response to the poll, Premier Brad Wall said the budget was not about trying to win popularity but "rather to do what is best for the province's finances and economy." In the emailed statement to media, Wall noted the province capped reductions to grants-in-lieu to municipalities after the decision to nix them. He also said he is asking Education Minister Don Morgan to review the library funding issue and report back next week.  "Frankly, I am a little surprised and grateful that we still enjoy a plurality of electoral support according to this poll given how tough the budget was," he said.   "We will continue to work to provide government that ensures fiscal responsibility and keeps our economy strong while looking after those most vulnerable." "I think this is all coming home to roost for the Sask. Party who were not forthcoming during the last general election," said NDP ethics and democracy critic David Forbes.  "We had the numbers where the minister of finance could not really get a handle on how bad the deficit was — was always changing and updating more and more how drastic is was." A word cloud generated by Insightrix on reactions to the 2017 provincial budget. (Insightrix) Those polled also said that poor people, single-income earners, the elderly and the middle class were most negatively impacted by the budget, while the wealthy and business sector were most likely to benefit. A total of 803 randomly selected, SaskWatch Research panel members participated in the online research study from April 11-13, 2017. Quotas were set by age, gender and region to match the province's general population. Since the research is conducted online, it is considered to be a non-probability proportion sample; therefore, margins of error are not applicable. Comparisons have been made to similar polls that used the same methodology, quotas and sample source. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now