Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Next steps for Alanna Koch unclear after coming in 2nd in Sask. Party leadership race The unsuccessful Sask. Party candidates all expressed support for working with the new premier. Social Sharing 4 losing Sask. Party candidates pledge to work with premier-designate Scott Moe Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Jan 28, 2018 2:10 PM CT | Last Updated: January 28, 2018 Alanna Koch pictured after the first round of voting. She led until the fourth, when Scott Moe knocked her from the top spot before winning the Saskatchewan Party leadership race. (Alex Brockman/CBC News) Where second place finisher and longtime civil servant Alanna Koch goes after losing the Saskatchewan Party leadership race is an unknown.  Speaking after her fifth ballot defeat to Scott Moe in Saskatoon on Saturday, Koch, who served as deputy minister to Brad Wall and deputy minister of agriculture before that, wouldn't commit to running in future elections.  "You know, I just ran a really awesome leadership race and you know what I'm focused on is being involved in the future of the party, but it's too soon for me to say what I'm going to do next." 'I will fight for this province': Scott Moe to replace Brad Wall as Sask. premier after tight race 'This is the new Saskatchewan': Brad Wall makes final speech before Scott Moe voted next premier Koch stepped away, but did not resign from her post as deputy minister to the premier in order to enter the leadership race.  Asked is she would return to that job, if asked by the new leader, Koch didn't commit. "You know what, it's too soon for me to comment. I just came through the leadership race. I've got to give some things some thought and we'll go from there." 2nd ballot spot could be key to victory for Sask. Party race: experts Koch was first after three ballots, holding a narrow lead over Moe until the fourth round, when he took the lead following the elimination of Gord Wyant.  "I guess I just didn't get enough people to vote for me, I mean it's as simple as that.  I know I ran a great campaign, I had a fantastic team. No regrets," she said Saturday.  Ken Cheveldayoff says he door-knocked more than any of the other candidates. (Alex Brockman/CBC) Third place finisher, Ken Cheveldayoff, also expressed disappointment in his loss. Some of his supporters left out audible gasps when they saw his name appear third in the first round.  "I think we'll reevaluate that and see if there's anything that we could have done better," he said after the fourth ballot, where he was knocked out.  OpinionSask. Party must embrace change to survive after Brad Wall "But you know we started today saying, hey, we've done all that we could, we've door-knocked on more doors that anybody in this campaign, I believe." He pledged to work with the new premier and said he would continue to advocate for campaign points like better Internet access to rural residents and removing the PST from insurance.  Leadership candidate Gord Wyant (left) pictured with Saskatoon Southeast MLA Don Morgan (right). Wyant says he will advocate for mental health and addictions support in government. (Alex Brockman/CBC) Wyant ended the race in the fourth spot after starting out with 21 per cent of first choice ballot votes. "I sense that our message has resonated with a lot of people in Saskatchewan. We're pleased to see a lot of the other candidates talking about some of the issues, which I thought were very very important to the people of Saskatchewan." He committed to both working with the premier and running in the 2020 election, as did fifth place finisher Tina Beaudry-Mellor.  Tina Beaudry-Mellor says she wants to know how many times her name appeared in second and third choice spots on ballots. (Alex Brockman/CBC News) Wyant said he would continue to push the leader to deal with mental health and addictions, as well as education.  Beaudry-Mellor, who only secured 226 first choice votes and was eliminated in the second round, said she is interested to know how many times her name appeared in second, or third, choice spots.  "We also ran with a team that was all brand new to politics quite deliberately, and I feel really good about that," she said of her campaign.  About the Author Stephanie Taylor Reporter, CBC Saskatchewan Stephanie Taylor is a reporter based in Saskatchewan. Before joining CBC News in Regina, she covered municipal politics in her hometown of Winnipeg and in Halifax. Reach her at stephanie.taylor@cbc.ca @__stephanietaylor CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'I will fight for this province': Scott Moe to replace Brad Wall as Sask. premier after tight race 'This is the new Saskatchewan': Brad Wall makes final speech before Scott Moe voted next premier 2nd ballot spot could be key to victory for Sask. Party race: experts Opinion Sask. Party must embrace change to survive after Brad Wall Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now