Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon No 3.5% wage cut? Sask. unions say they'll believe it when they see it Another pillar of the Saskatchewan government's spring budget has crumbled. But unions are still reacting tepidly to the news that the province will no longer seek wage decreases for workers. Social Sharing 'They still have an expectation' of belt tightening, says public employees' union Guy Quenneville · CBC News · Posted: Nov 30, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: November 30, 2017 Bob Bymoen, president of SGEU, wants to see wage increases 'to keep up with inflation in this province.' (CBC) Unions with their eyes warily cast on future contract-bargaining sessions are reacting mutedly to the news that the Saskatchewan government will not achieve an across-the-board 3.5 per cent wage cut this fiscal year. Sask. government drains $300M just-in-case money, projected revenue down "There's other tightening of the belts they're requesting over and above that," said Jackie Christianson, who represents 7,000 school support workers through the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE). Those other reductions include potential cuts to extended health and dental benefits, severance and sick days. "Not for this year, but they still have an expectation of it within the three-year forecast to [2019-2020]," said Christianson, referring to the fiscal year by which the province hopes to reach a balanced budget. 'We'll see,' says union On Wednesday, Finance Minister Donna Harpauer said the government will not find $250 million in savings this year by asking all government workers to take a 3.5 per cent wage cut. It's just the latest pillar of the government's contentious spring 2017 budget to crumble, following reversals such as Bill 40 and proposed library-funding cuts. Sask.'s Bill 40, budget reversals confuses economic planning: prof 'We made a mistake': Sask. government turns back page on library cuts But Bob Bymoen says he'll wait and see what happens at the bargaining table. "This government doesn't have a good track record of being honest, so we'll see what comes out of it," said Bymoen, the president of the Saskatchewan Government and General Employees' Union, which represents around 18,000 government workers. Mixed signals Bymoen's skepticism comes from his experience last spring, when Premier Brad Wall first called for the wage cut. Sask. premier wants to cut overall public sector worker compensation by 3.5% Bymoen says that "startling" demand was not in step with what government negotiators were telling his bargaining units at the time. "The way it was introduced by government was really off," he said. "I don't think they thought it through. It was out in the media, off of the premier's lips, before it was ever put forward at a bargaining table." What Bymoen wants to see are actual wage increases "to keep up with inflation in this province." No guarantees Jason Tibbs, the business manager for IBEW Local 2067, the union that represents around 1,700 SaskPower workers, doesn't sound like he's holding his breath for that. "It probably doesn't change a lot given the fact that membership wasn't looking to take reductions," he said of Wednesday's news. About the Author Guy Quenneville Reporter at CBC Saskatoon Story tips? guy.quenneville@cbc.ca Follow Guy on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask.'s Bill 40, budget reversals confuses economic planning: prof 'We made a mistake': Sask. government turns back page on library cuts 3.5% wage reduction already worked into Sask. budget Sask. premier wants to cut overall public sector worker compensation by 3.5% Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now