Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI No apology from Pope 'a setback' to P.E.I.'s Indigenous people, chief says The leader of the Abegweit First Nation Chief Brian Francis says he was "shocked, dismayed and hurt" that the Pope has refused to apologize for the Catholic Church's role in residential schools. Social Sharing 'One would think that a leader leads by example and does what is right' CBC News · Posted: Apr 09, 2018 5:00 PM AT | Last Updated: April 9, 2018 Abegweit First Nations Chief Brian Francis, left, isn't happy with the lack of apology for residential schools from Pope Francis. (Steve Bruce/CBC/Vincenzo Pinto/AFP/Getty Images) The leader of the Abegweit First Nation Chief Brian Francis says he was "shocked, dismayed and hurt" that the Pope has refused to apologize for the Catholic Church's role in residential schools. Chief Francis is a Catholic, and he expected Pope Francis to say sorry. "After what is known out there about the residential schools and the tremendous trauma that it has caused to the Indigenous peoples across Canada, that he would refuse to apologize — it's very hurtful," Francis said.  Pope's decision to not issue apology 'a slap in the face,' residential school survivor says 'When you do wrong, you apologize': Indigenous leaders disappointed with Pope Francis "We all know sometimes being a leader is not always popular, but one would think that a leader leads by example and does what is right," Francis said. An apology on Canadian soil was one of the 94 calls to action recommended by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.  The head of the Canadian Conference of Catholic Bishops, however, said the Pope felt he couldn't personally apologize for residential schools. 'Revictimization' Francis has family and community members who attended Schubenacadie residential school in Nova Scotia.  "It almost comes to revictimization, people tend to question themselves, our community members," he said. "It's a setback." Francis is considering sending a letter to Bishop Richard Grecco, the head of the Catholic Church on P.E.I., and to Pope Francis too.  "This has shaken my faith a little bit," he said, adding he will continue attending church.  "It will never be the church it claims to be, nor will it ever be complete until it meaningfully reconciles with the Indigenous peoples of this great country," Francis said. "What better place to start than with an apology?" More P.E.I. News What's happening with O'Leary arena 1 year after Kraft Hockeyville win? Prosecution files appeal in cadet disgraceful conduct case With files from Laura Chapin CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now