Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan 'No solid polling' done in Sask. Party leadership race, political expert says The Saskatchewan Party membership will soon elect its new leader, and the province’s next premier. But despite the election fast approaching, it’s still difficult to determine who will come out on top from the five-candidate race. Social Sharing Candidates' campaigns have conducted polls with differing results Joelle Seal · CBC News · Posted: Jan 13, 2018 6:00 AM CT | Last Updated: January 13, 2018 There have been no independent, third-party polls that weren't commissioned by one of the five candidates conducted on the Saskatchewan Party leadership race, according to political experts. (Adam Hunter/CBC) The Saskatchewan Party membership will soon elect its new leader, and the province's next premier. But predicting which of the five candidates aiming to replace outgoing Premier Brad Wall will come out on top on Jan. 27 isn't easy, as suggested by recent polls with differing findings. Sask. Party brings in $385K in memberships since leadership race began New party leaders may change the dynamics of Sask. politics Saskatchewan Party leadership candidates have been sharing various types of polls showing how they're doing in the race on social media. But the polls have all been conducted in different ways and suggest different outcomes. Experts say those polls should be taken with a grain of salt. "The mark of a good poll is how transparent it is," said Jim Farney, an associate professor in political science at the University of Regina. The mark of a good poll is how transparent it is.- Political science professor Jim Farney "There's really been no solid polling done for the leadership race that I could go back and say, 'Yes, that was well done. And we know who is in the lead as a result,'" said Farney. Political analysts say a good poll will include basic information including how the respondents were contacted, how many respondents there were, when the survey happened, a margin of error and who, generally, was interviewed in the survey. Jim Farney is a political science professor at the University of Regina. (Kirk Fraser/CBC) "There is no independent third-party poll that was not commissioned by one of the candidates," said David Valentin, a political analyst and former executive vice-president of Mainstreet Research. "Because that hasn't been produced, essentially there's nothing to stop all of the campaigns from releasing their own poll numbers." Some of the polls shared by candidates have been generated on social media or news websites. "Anyone can vote in those surveys. They're just an online poll you click and then you're set. As a result, it's very hard to determine if those individuals are actually members of the Saskatchewan Party," said Valentin. "We don't actually know or have a reasonable understanding that those people are actually eligible to vote in the leadership race." Koch poll Only leadership candidate Alanna Koch has released polling results that her campaign commissioned from a third-party polling firm, NRG Research Group, in October and December. Valentin said that one advantage for a candidate commissioning a poll is that they have access to membership records to find eligible voters to respond to the survey. In October, a campaign release about the poll indicated "Alanna is positioned in a three-way cluster at the top with Ken Cheveldayoff and Scott Moe within the statistical margin of error," with a large number of undecided voters. The campaign said that survey sampled 500 Sask. Party members with demographic and geographic distribution across the membership. It said the results of the study have a margin of error of 4.38 per cent. Complaint justified but no evidence questions provided to Alanna Koch's campaign, says Sask. Party decision Help from premier's office for Sask. Party candidate creates impression of 'favouritism': political expert In December, her campaign said she had made significant gains since October and "there are only two candidates who are in contention." "In October she didn't release the percentages, but she released a lot of useful information. In December, she didn't release the useful information, but she did release the percentages," said Valentin. Valentin said for the poll to be transparent, both the results and useful information about how the poll was conducted should be released. "We have to remember who commissioned the survey," said Valentin. "There's a value to campaigns to spread that information to show how well they're doing, to try to help build a narrative that they have momentum, that they're a serious candidate. The only problem is you really can't rely on that information so much." Farney said that for a race where some of the candidates may be close to one another in terms of policy, sharing polls may be a way to influence voters' perceptions. "For one of them to be able to say, 'Hey, look. I'm ahead, I'm the winner' … that's a strategic gain for them, if there's less to differentiate you on the policy side." Horse-race reporting Farney said that even though there has been little third-party polling in this election race and it's not clear who's in the lead, it's not all that bad. "There's a growing literature that says what we call 'horse-race reporting' is actually harmful because it means you and I have a lot of conversations about who's winning rather than who stands for what policy, or what people's backgrounds are," said Farney. "The substance of it gets obscured if we talk too much about polling." Saskatchewan Party leadership candidate Alanna Koch is the only candidate whose campaign has commissioned a third-party poll. (Brandon Harder/CBC) CBC contacted each campaign to ask if they had commissioned any sort of polling. Koch's campaign said it had not done more polling since December. Scott Moe and Gord Wyant's campaigns did not respond in time for publication. Ken Cheveldayoff's and Tina Beaudry-Mellor's campaigns said they had not commissioned any formal polls. "Our polling has taken place on doorsteps and talking to grassroots members," said Cheveldayoff's campaign in an email. "As many political campaigns have demonstrated, polling is not reliable. Connecting directly with voters is our preferred method of gauging voter sentiment," said Beaudry-Mellor's campaign in an email. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. Party brings in $385K in memberships since leadership race began Early election not on the minds of Sask. Party leader hopefuls Cheveldayoff campaign's voting stations cause confusion ahead of Sask. Party leadership convention Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now