Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Northern Pulp to shut Boat Harbour waste treatment plant in 2020 The Nova Scotia government announced Friday that Northern Pulp mill's water treatment facility will shut down in 2020. The remediation work could take up to 10 years. Social Sharing No word on what will replace Northern Pulp mill's effluent treatment facility CBC News · Posted: Apr 17, 2015 10:52 AM AT | Last Updated: April 17, 2015 Currently, a pipe carries 90 million litres of pulp mill waste a day from the Northern Pulp mill site at Abercrombie Point, under the East River, to a treatment facility at Pictou Landing. (CBC) comments The province of Nova Scotia has set aside $50 million to begin cleaning up the pulp mill waste treatment plant in Boat Harbour, but there are still questions about where the effluent will be treated after the plant is taken offline. "Today's legislation will call for the closure of the Boat Harbour effluent treatment facility by January 2020," Labi Kousoulis, Minister of Internal Services, said Friday. Boat Harbour waste plant to close in deal to end blockade Pictou Landing demonstrators upset over effluent spill "I know that seems like a long time, but there is no quick fix to Boat Harbour. It will take several years to complete our remediation planning and several more years to complete the remediation itself." Kousoulis said remediation planning is well underway. The cleanup could take up to 10 years to complete. Ken Swain with the Department of Internal Services said the Nova Scotia government cut short the lease that would have allowed Northern Pulp to operate the treatment facility until Dec. 31, 2030. "The mill's expectation, I believe, would have been to enjoy the lease until that date. However, that was not consistent with the promise that was made by the province to the community to close Boat Harbour within a reasonable time frame," said Swain. Shortened lease As a result, the lease was shortened by about 11 years. Swain, who is overseeing the Boat Harbour remediation, was formerly the project director of the Sydney Tar Ponds and coke ovens cleanup. Currently, a pipe carries 90 million litres of pulp mill waste a day from the Northern Pulp mill at Abercrombie Point, under the East River, to the treatment facility on the Pictou Landing First Nation. Chief Andrea Paul said she is happy the project is finally getting started. Pictou Landing First Nation Chief Andrea Paul said the province's announcement makes the community confident that the remediation will happen. "I feel pretty confident with the discussions that we've had and to the work that we've been doing and know that the start up work is going to be happening within this year," she said. Last June, effluent from Northern Pulp was discovered leaking from the pipeline. The leak led protesters to set up a blockade, which ended once the province reached an agreement with the Pictou Landing First Nation to shut down the Boat Harbour plant. The pipe also broke in 2008, which caused a lengthy shutdown of the mill. Representatives from Northern Pulp were absent from Friday's press conference. Kousoulis said the government has not consulted with the company about where the mill will deliver its effluent, but said that consultation will begin now. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Boat Harbour waste plant to close in deal to end blockade Tourism operators wade into Northern Pulp waste dispute Northern Pulp ordered to contain, clean up effluent spill Northern Pulp mill shut down due to effluent leak Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now