Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Northern Pulp flunks air emission tests — again Nova Scotia's Environment Department has begun an investigation into Northern Pulp operations after the Pictou County mill exceeded air contaminant emissions limits by nearly 50 per cent in June. Social Sharing Mill watchdog group says Nova Scotia government is failing to enforce emissions standards Paul Withers · CBC News · Posted: Sep 19, 2017 6:30 AM AT | Last Updated: September 19, 2017 Emissions from the power boiler at the Northern Pulp mill have once again exceeded limits established by the Nova Scotia Environment Department. (Jeorge Sadi/CBC) Nova Scotia's Environment Department has begun an investigation into Northern Pulp operations after the Pictou County mill exceeded air contaminant emissions limits by nearly 50 per cent in June. "There is currently an active investigation underway by NSE related to the recent stack tests at Northern Pulp," spokesperson Chrissy Matheson said in an emailed statement to CBC News. Matheson declined to provide any details, adding the department has not issued any corrective orders. Mill exceeded limits 3 years running This is the third year in a row emissions from the power boiler at the Northern Pulp mill exceeded the limits set down by the Environment Department. In June, tests recorded particulate emissions of 224 milligrams per reference cubic metre. The boiler permit allows 150 mg/Rm3. The results were disclosed by Northern Pulp earlier this month in letters to local members of the Nova Scotia legislature and confirmed by the company. Kathy Cloutier, communications director for Northern Pulp, says the company is investigating the causes of the latest "disappointing" emission test results. (CBC) The company calls the situation a "disappointing step back for all involved." "We continue to investigate all avenues that may be contributing to the fluctuating results," said Northern Pulp spokesperson Kathy Cloutier in a statement to CBC News. "Recent activities include having North American boiler experts on site conducting a full audit of scrubber operations. The recommendations stemming from this audit are now under review."  A $35M fix    In 2015, the mill, owned by Paper Excellence, spent $35 million on a new precipitator which captures particulate from its recovery boiler using static electricity. Since then, the Mill says overall air contaminant emissions have been reduced by 80 per cent. Even so, emissions from the mill's power boiler — which the mill says emits lower volumes of particulate than its recovery boiler — have been problematic. In 2015 and 2016, power boiler emissions exceeded levels allowed under its operating permit. The province responded with directives to investigate and correct the problem. Northern Pulp emissions prompt directive from Nova Scotia government Critics complain 'no repercussions' This year, the power boiler numbers worsened, frustrating critics like Matt Gunning of the local mill watchdog, Clean the Mill. "It's like any law. If there's no repercussions for breaking the law, there's very few incentives to start operating within it," he said. "If those emission standards are there, they should be enforced. Is the government capable of enforcing it, or are they just not interested?"  Northern Pulp mill fails emissions testing Gunning says the results should be made public automatically by the regulator.  "It's par for the course. We have to beg and grovel for any information. The government needs to be more transparent." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Northern Pulp mill fails emissions testing again Northern Pulp's Pictou pulp mill meets air quality standards Northern Pulp emissions prompt directive from Nova Scotia government Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now