Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Northern Cape Breton fears imminent health-care crisis with loss of doctor One new doctor recruit is leaving and two longtime doctors in the area are hoping to retire or reduce their hours. Social Sharing One new doctor recruit is leaving and two longtime doctors in the area are hoping to retire Holly Conners · CBC News · Posted: Sep 29, 2017 7:42 PM AT | Last Updated: September 29, 2017 Northern Cape Breton is coping with a severe shortage of doctors. (Shutterstock) People living in northern Cape Breton say they are facing a health-care crisis with the loss of a family physician in the area. "We're facing a very serious situation up here," said Rob MacDonald, an Aspy Bay resident who's part of a group that formed to help recruit new doctors to Buchanan Memorial Community Health Centre in Neils Harbour. The family doctors working out of the hospital serve a large swath of Victoria County from Ingonish to Meat Cove. One of two full-time doctors recruited two years ago has just wrapped up her practice and is moving to New Glasgow where her spouse is pursuing career opportunities, MacDonald said. 'A great deal of stress' And two other doctors who have been working in the community for decades want to retire, or at least maintain reduced hours. "This means that our existing MDs are under a great deal of stress," said MacDonald. "It means that patients are facing longer and longer wait times in order to be able to see their family doctor. And my real concern is that this is going to adversely impact upon the emergency room up here. We may be facing closings on a regular basis." Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area That's a serious concern given the remoteness of the area north of Cape Smokey. "Here, we're 2½ to 3 hours away from Sydney. In the wintertime, it can be impossible to get across two or three mountains to get from Neils Harbour to Sydney," he said. Remoteness a concern Ingonish area Coun. Larry Dauphinee believes the community's remoteness is also working against it when it comes to doctor recruitment. "I feel that there's more recruiting trying to get them into the industrial areas of Nova Scotia. I'm not sure we're really getting a fair chance," he said. Proposed tax changes could drive doctors out of country, physician warns The municipality is keen to do its part to help, he said, but so far has had little luck getting a meeting with the recruiter for the area, or with the Nova Scotia Health Authority. In a statement, the health authority says recruiting physicians for Buchanan Memorial Hospital is a top priority. Health minister will consider recommendations by Doctors Nova Scotia, but says problems are complex Cape Breton remains short on psychiatrists after 2 hires back out About the Author Holly Conners Reporter Holly Conners is a reporter and current affairs producer who has been with CBC Cape Breton since 1998. Contact her at holly.conners@cbc.ca. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now