Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia's foreign-trained doctor tests could start next year A new program could begin next year to test the abilities of foreign-trained physicians to see if they're able to work in Canada. But for now, the program will be limited to family doctors. Social Sharing Dalhousie University confident a plan will be ready to start assessing foreign physicians Carolyn Ray · CBC News · Posted: Oct 26, 2017 7:00 AM AT | Last Updated: October 26, 2017 Nova Scotia's health authority says more than 33,000 people were on a waitlist for a family doctor in July. (iStock) Dalhousie University says it will be ready next year to start assessing the work of foreign-trained physicians, opening the door for them to write their Canadian exams and start practising in the country. It's part of a national campaign to fill the large number of vacancies and cut wait-lists.  But for now, specialists won't be eligible for assessment. Nova Scotia's practice-ready assessment will only accept family physicians. "The issue is that it's quite labour-intensive to do it for each of the other disciplines, but they may choose to do that in due course," said Dr. David Gass, head of the department of family medicine at Dalhousie University. The new program replaces CAPP, the Clinician Assessment for Practice Program, which was canned in 2015. National initiative Since then, the Medical Council of Canada has developed a national practice-ready assessment program that includes consistent requirements to ensure that foreign-trained doctors will maintain the Canadian standard of care. The new program comes as three foreign-trained specialists complained publicly that, despite doctor shortages, Nova Scotia does not provide them with options to practise in the province. Foreign-trained physicians in N.S. want skills assessment German doctor frustrated by rules that prevent him from practising in N.S. The need for family doctors is also significant. In July, the Nova Scotia Health Authority said 33,216 Nova Scotians had registered on the wait-list for a physician. Some provinces have already started their practice-ready assessments with considerable demand. Newfoundland and Labrador, for example, closed the window for applicants in 2016 after filling all spots for the next two years. That province is accepting 10 physicians in the winter and another 10 in the fall. Working out details While Nova Scotia is on its way to starting its assessments, "there's several steps to go before we get there," said Gass. He expects a consultant's report will be completed by January at the latest. It will make recommendations on the business plan and implementation details. Then, it will up to the provincial Department of Health and Wellness to approve it, both philosophically and financially. Gass says many details are still being ironed out, including the length of the program, the number of participants and the cost to each physician. It's also unknown if the physicians who participate will be mandated to stay and work in the province for a set amount of time. Nova Scotia's Clinician Assessment for Practice Program cancelled Wait list for family doctors in Nova Scotia hits 33,216 He says each physician will have to write some exams, similar to fourth-year exams in Canada, to make sure they qualify. Once in Nova Scotia, they will have written and simulated tests with clinical scenarios before being observed by a peer. "I think all our estimates are that we need to increase our production of family physicians by around 10 to 20 people a year," said Gass. Boosting the number of family physicians can also be achieved in part by increasing the family medicine residency program, Gass said — something that's already in the works with the health authority. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Foreign-trained physicians in N.S. want skills assessment German doctor frustrated by rules that prevent him from practising in N.S. Wait list for family doctors in Nova Scotia hits 33,216 Nova Scotia's Clinician Assessment for Practice Program cancelled External Links About Practice-Ready Assessments Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now