Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia accused of 'major concessions' in Northern Pulp deal The Nova Scotia government is being accused of making "major concessions" to the Northern Pulp mill when it agreed to ease environmental conditions this week. Social Sharing Water, production limits eased as court challenge dropped Paul Withers · CBC News · Posted: Feb 11, 2016 6:00 AM AT | Last Updated: February 11, 2016 The new industrial approval allows the mill to withdraw an average of 70,000 cubic metres a day from the Middle River watershed by the end of the approval in 2020. (Angela MacIvor/CBC) comments The Nova Scotia government is being accused of making "major concessions" to the Northern Pulp mill when it agreed to ease environmental conditions this week. On Feb. 8, the province raised a paper production cap by 20,000 tonnes and relaxed water usage restrictions in a deal that ended the mill's legal challenge of its 2015 government industrial approval. Nova Scotia and Northern Pulp agree on water use rules Northern Pulp can meet conditions, report to province says Northern Pulp emissions prompt directive from Nova Scotia government The company — a subsidiary of Paper Excellence — says the original terms were unachievable, but critics see the changes as a clear victory for a notorious polluter. "The government has failed to even gently pressure this mill to meet standards being met by every other pulp mill in the country. That's all we're asking," said Dave Gunning of the group Clean the Mill. "The mill wanted an increase in production and they got it. They wanted to use more water and they got it. They wanted to put in more effluent and they got basically everything they were looking for." Dave Gunning, of the group Clean the Mill, says Northern Pulp got everything it wanted when the provincial government agreed to ease environmental conditions. (CBC) Fight over water The province had already removed or reduced a number of conditions in July 2015. The company's court challenge centred on a requirement to reduce mill water usage by about 34 per cent, which would automatically put the brakes on production. It would also reduce polluted effluent discharged — for decades — into the Boat Harbour wastewater lagoons adjacent to the Pictou Landing First Nation. A 310,000-tonne production cap was imposed to ensure the mill could meet stricter standards. The new industrial approval allows the mill to withdraw an average of 70,000 cubic metres — or 70 million litres — per day from the Middle River watershed by the end of the approval in 2020. That is an 11 per cent increase over the original approval, which set the limit at 63,000 cubic metres. The new industrial approval also allows a maximum daily removal of 92,310 cubic meters by 2020. 'Major concessions' "The provincial government has made some major concessions in favour of Northern Pulp," said Jocelyne Rankin of the Ecology Action Centre. She cites the removal of any maximum limit for wastewater discharge. "That initial condition has been completely revoked," she said. Rankin also objects to another change in the terms, one that allows water consumption to be calculated on a daily average over an entire year. She says an annualized average will allow big withdrawals in summer months when water levels are lower in the Middle River watershed, threatening fish. "When the mill shuts down as it does, it can tap into that unextracted water that was not used during the shutdown, perhaps exceeding the daily limit," Rankin said. However, the Feb. 8 ministerial letter to Northern Pulp detailing the changes refutes that interpretation. The letter notes "shutdown" days cannot be used in the mill's averaging calculation. Critics' claims challenged On Wednesday, the province released a hydrological study it commissioned from consulting firm RV Anderson and used it to justify its decision to increase the mill's water consumption limit. The December 2015 report concludes the "sustainable" daily intake from the Middle River watershed is 95,040 cubic metres a day, above the maximums allowed in the industrial approval. The province says the water consumption limits are still below those contained in the mill's last approval in 2011. Northern Pulp says water usage reductions are reasonable and achievable. "This is a $10-million industrial approval. That is the capital that is required to meet the terms and conditions," Mill spokesperson Kathy Cloutier told CBC News. "It's not an easy thing to meet these standards but we are committed to meeting them." Both the province and the company downplay the significance of the removal of effluent limits. "You regulate effluent through water usage. It's covered in the reduction of water usage," Cloutier said. Pictou Landing band silent CBC News contacted the Pictou Landing First Nation for a response to the changes made by the province to the Northern Pulp industrial approval. The band did not provide a response. It is currently in discussions with the province over the promised 2020 shutdown and remediation of the Boat Harbour wastewater treatment lagoons. Additional measures   The new industrial approval contains other requirements for Northern Pulp that do address effluent: Submit a list of proposed capital water reduction projects one year prior to proposed implementation of the projects. Following a review by the department, detailed engineering plans for a project may be required from the company. Retain the services of a qualified third-party professional engineer to determine the impacts of water reduction projects on the quality of the effluent entering and being discharged from the effluent treatment system. Conduct an assessment of total reduced sulphur levels in wastewater which compares to current emissions to performance objectives by June 15, and submit an annual report of wastewater total reduced sulphur loading results to the department by June 30 each year. Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content About the Author Paul Withers Reporter Paul Withers is an award-winning journalist whose career started in the 1970s as a cartoonist. He has been covering Nova Scotia politics for more than 20 years. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Nova Scotia and Northern Pulp agree on water use rules Northern Pulp can meet conditions, report to province says Northern Pulp Boat Harbour cleanup 'realistic' but price tag not clear Northern Pulp charged with releasing effluent into fish habitat Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now