Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia announces marijuana will be sold through NSLC and online The provincial government announced Thursday that pot will be sold through certain Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. outlets and online when recreational marijuana becomes legal in Canada next year. Social Sharing Government says legal age for marijuana use will be 19 years old Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Dec 07, 2017 9:13 AM AT | Last Updated: December 8, 2017 The legal age to use, possess or purchase marijuana will be 19, the legal drinking age in Nova Scotia. (CBC) comments The provincial government announced Thursday that pot will be sold through certain Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. outlets and online when recreational marijuana is expected to become legal in Canada next year. The legal age to use, possess or purchase marijuana will be 19, the legal drinking age in Nova Scotia, Justice Minister Mark Furey said at a news conference. People will be allowed to have up to 30 grams for personal consumption. They will also be allowed to grow up to four plants per household. The Trudeau government introduced legislation in April with the goal of legalizing marijuana by July 2018, but left it to the provinces to determine details such as how it will be sold. The Nova Scotia government did not specify how many NSLC stores will carry marijuana, and said more details will be announced down the road. "The NSLC has the experience and expertise to distribute and sell restricted products like alcohol and now cannabis in a socially responsible way," said Furey. "We believe the NSLC is best positioned to sell cannabis, keeping it out of the hands of young people and making it legally available in a safe, regulated way." Justice Minister Mark Furey announced Nova Scotia's marijuana plans Thursday. (CBC) The minister initially told reporters online sales would include home delivery, but later admitted that was a mistake and it was up to the NSLC to decide how to get pot into the hands of those who order it over the internet. Furey said the dispensaries that exist today will be illegal. PC MLA Karla MacFarlane called the decision to allow pot sales in outlets that already sell wine, beer and spirits "shameful." "The danger is impulse," she said. "I've heard it from many youth, when you walk into a liquor store and you have the opportunity as well to purchase marijuana. The science is out there, the data is out there the two shouldn't be mixed." NDP Leader Gary Burrill offered an opposite view, commending the government for choosing "the public sector road." "In our view this is the right road, we think the government has made the right decision and we affirm it." Nova Scotians will be allowed up to 30 grams of marijuana for personal consumption. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) Unlike New Brunswickers, Nova Scotians will not be required to lock up marijuana, Furey said. The government anticipates people will secure cannabis as they do prescription medications and alcohol. The justice minister also said one of the challenges will be for the NSLC to obtain enough marijuana to meet the expected demand. The province will try to use production facilities approved in Nova Scotia. Only two facilities in Nova Scotia have so far been approved by Health Canada to cultivate marijuana, although they do not yet have licences to sell. "But our objective is to secure the product locally," said Furey. He said he doesn't believe the current proposal by Ottawa to split tax revenues from pot sales 50-50 with the provinces is fair. Finance Minister Karen Casey will head to Ottawa on Sunday to discuss the topic. Furey said the medicinal stream is a separate regulatory process controlled by the federal government.  Legal age for marijuana use should be 21, say top public health officials Results of online survey The province said it had been guided by the results of an online survey completed more than 31,000 times, and by conversations with 149 individuals who took part in focus groups led by MQO Research on behalf of the government. But those consultations provided less-than-conclusive results to some of the key questions about the sale and distribution of cannabis. For example, respondents were split over whether they supported the government's preferred option to have the NSLC sell pot. Only 49 per cent of respondents indicated they either somewhat agree or completely agree with the survey option, "Selling recreational cannabis in the same stores as alcohol."   Researchers got the same response to the question of whether cannabis should be available through online ordering, with home or store delivery operated by a Crown corporation. More than half wanted stand alone stores Slightly more than half — 56 per cent — supported the notion that recreational cannabis be available in new standalone stores operated by a Crown corporation, rather than alongside beer, wine or liquor in already existing NSLC outlets. The results were more conclusive when it came to the question of the legal age for smoking marijuana. Seventy-five per cent of those who completed the survey indicated they supported the legal age limit of 19. Most health-related organizations who weighed in, however, suggested 21 or 25 years old would be a more appropriate legal age limit for cannabis. They were most concerned about the protection and health of young people, particularly the effects of cannabis on the developing brain of people under the age of 25. There was a similar 75 per cent support for placing some sort of restriction on smoking or vaping in public, but only about a third of respondents supported an outright ban on smoking in public. Pot black market isn't expected to disappear even as marijuana becomes legal Ottawa launches campaign against youth drug-impaired driving About the Author Jean Laroche Reporter Jean Laroche has been a CBC reporter for 32 years. He's been covering Nova Scotia politics since 1995 and has been at Province House longer than any sitting member. With files from Cassie Williams CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Should pot be sold with liquor at the NSLC? The province wants your say Pot black market isn't expected to disappear even as marijuana becomes legal Councillor to stop using word 'marijuana,' says term has racist connotations Ottawa launches campaign against youth drug-impaired driving Nova Scotia's first legal crop of marijuana could sprout in June Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now