Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia continues to limp in last in hip, knee replacement wait times Nova Scotians needing hip or knee replacements still have the longest average wait of any patients in Canada's 10 provinces, despite millions of dollars in spending and an auditor-general's report that made recommendations on how to monitor the backlog. Social Sharing 5 priority procedures have wait times improved since 2012, but all are worse than Canadian average CBC News · Posted: Mar 28, 2017 2:59 PM AT | Last Updated: March 28, 2017 A doctor holds a model of a cementless hip replacement. More and more Nova Scotians need new joints. (The Associated Press) Nova Scotians needing hip or knee replacements still have the longest average wait of any patients in Canada's 10 provinces, despite millions of dollars in spending and an auditor general's report that made recommendations on how to monitor the backlog. The Canadian Institute for Health Information released its annual wait-times report on Tuesday. It showed that Nova Scotia has improved over the last five years on wait times for five priority procedures — hip replacement, knee replacement, hip fracture repair, cataract surgery, and radiation therapy. But in all five cases, the percentage of people receiving the procedure within what is considered the appropriate wait time was lower than the pan-Canadian average. In the case of hip and knee replacements, it was much lower. Most patients across Canada get priority surgeries within target wait times Less than half of Nova Scotia patients received their knee replacement surgery within the benchmark. Nova Scotia ranked dead last for hip and knee replacement, ninth for cataracts and radiation therapy and sixth for hip fracture repair.  Kathleen Morris of CIHI noted Nova Scotia's wait times have improved since 2012. (CNW Group/Canadian Institute for Health Information) Bringing up the rear "Across all of the priority procedures the waits are shorter than they were five years ago," said Kathleen Morris, a vice-president at the institute. "Despite that improvement, though, the waits are longer for hip and knee replacements than in other parts of the country." The wait times for joint replacements were also broken down by region in the province — and it made a big difference where patients lived. Rates were better in Nova Scotia Health Authority's Zone 3, which includes Guysborough, Antigonish, Richmond, Inverness, Victoria and Cape Breton counties. Eighty-three per cent of hip-replacement patients had their surgery within the benchmark, as did 74 per cent of knee-replacement patients. Results were poorer in the northern Zone 2 (hip 51 per cent, knee 37 per cent) and the central Zone 4 (hip 53 per cent, knee 28 per cent). The worst results were in the western Zone 1, which includes Yarmouth, Shelburne, Digby, Queens, Annapolis, Lunenburg and Kings counties. In that region, only 40 per cent of hip-replacement patients and 26 per cent of knee-replacement patients were treated within the benchmark. AG has been critical In February, Nova Scotia Auditor General Michael Pickup said the health authority had only completed two of the seven recommendations he made in 2014 to improve wait-time reporting for knee and hip surgeries. He criticized the health authority for failing to give citizens a clear target of how long they must await for the operations as well as a monitoring system to indicate how hospitals are performing. About 90 per cent of Nova Scotia patients receive their hip replacement within 750 days and knee replacements within 800 days. Nova Scotia fails to set knee, hip surgery wait-time targets, says auditor general Orthopedic surgery wait times expected to be cut with new $1.9M funding "Important recommendations, such as setting specific targets for short-term surgery wait times and publicly reporting against those targets, are not complete," he said in his report. Nova Scotia invested $8.1 million in orthopedic surgeries in 2016. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Most patients get priority surgeries within target wait times: report Nova Scotia fails to set knee, hip surgery wait-time targets, says auditor general Nova Scotia patients may not be surprised by results of wait times report Orthopedic surgery wait times expected to be cut with new $1.9M funding Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now