Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia's budget to include plan for improved internet access in rural areas Business Minister Geoff MacLellan says the upcoming provincial budget will include his government’s plan for solving the problem of poor internet service in rural areas. Social Sharing 'We’ve got to start moving the chains on this and we will,' says Business Minister Geoff MacLellan Michael Gorman · CBC News · Posted: Mar 09, 2018 1:36 PM AT | Last Updated: March 9, 2018 Business Minister Geoff MacLellan. (CBC) Business Minister Geoff MacLellan says the upcoming provincial budget will include his government's plan for solving the problem of poor internet service in rural areas. MacLellan acknowledged there has been a lot of "waiting and talking" about a plan to bring true high-speed service to the entire province, but he said "that time is now." The minister said it's good to finally have the plan, but making substantive change comes down to one thing. "At the end of the day, this becomes about money," he told reporters at Province House. High-speed internet a 'basic right,' says premier as connection projects announced Annapolis County to borrow $13M to install fibre-optic internet "It's a $500 million problem estimated for Nova Scotia, so we've got to spend big to be approaching a solution to the broadband challenge for many Nova Scotians in remote areas." The government spent $15 million on the issue last year, but MacLellan said that only amounted to "inching along." "We've got to start moving the chains on this and we will." Tory MLA Kim Masland says poor internet service is preventing some people from moving to her district. (CBC) Tory MLA Kim Masland said that plan can't come soon enough. The representative for Queens-Shelburne said she routinely hears from people in her constituency who struggle with inferior service. It also has an effect on bringing people to the area, said Masland. "In my constituency I have people that want to move to Queens County but can't because internet is prohibiting them from coming there and doing their business at home," she said. "We've got to do a better job of this. We've got to do it now." About the Author Michael Gorman Reporter Michael Gorman is a reporter in Nova Scotia whose coverage areas include Province House, rural communities, and health care. Contact him with story ideas at michael.gorman@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now