Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia's marijuana plan expected by end of 2017 'We're well-positioned now to come to conclusions by the end of the calendar year,' says Mark Furey Social Sharing 'We're well-positioned now to come to conclusions by the end of the calendar year,' says Mark Furey Anjuli Patil · CBC News · Posted: Nov 08, 2017 8:36 PM AT | Last Updated: November 9, 2017 The federal government is expecting to legalize cannabis by July 1, 2018. (Jim Mone/Canadian Press/AP) comments Nova Scotia Justice Minister Mark Furey said Nova Scotians can expect to hear about the province's marijuana plan by the end of 2017. "Our objective hopefully is by the end of the calendar year we'll have a clear position on age and distribution," he told reporters Thursday following a cabinet meeting. "We'll do that before the holidays." Cannabis is expected to be legalized across the country by Canada Day 2018. Online survey results In October, the province launched an online survey asking for the public's opinion on issues like the legal age to purchase and use recreational cannabis, where it can be purchased and where it can be used. Mark Furey is Nova Scotia's justice minister. (CBC) Furey said 31,000 people responded to the survey, which ran between Oct. 6 and Oct. 27. He said he anticipates the results from the survey will be available by mid-November, but they will need to be analyzed. On Tuesday, CBC held a public forum called Joint Venture about what marijuana legalization could look like in Nova Scotia. Furey declined to be part of the panel. Response to Joint Venture panel Two panellists, Todd Leader and Nadine Wentzell, mentioned the province had not reached out to either of them regarding cannabis safety issues in the workplace and legalities around it. "I think the employers in general have been obviously absent from any of the discussions. [They] have not been invited to participate in anything related to safety," said Wentzell, a pharmacist and a consultant on drugs in the workplace.  "There's been no employer consultation and as far as I'm aware, no employer involvement either." Joint Venture panellists, from left to right: Chris Enns, Myrna Gillis, Todd Leader and Nadine Wentzell. (CBC) Leader, president of the Association of Psychologists of Nova Scotia as well as vice-president of the Nova Scotia College of Social Workers, said he hasn't heard of any consultations either. "I've got zero information about what's happening and where this government is going," said Leader. Retail future of cannabis Furey said the province has "reached out extensively across multiple sectors," including health care and others. The Justice Department released a list Thursday of all 82 organizations consulted as part of the department's fact-finding effort. Stakeholders included advocacy groups, health associations and boards, cannabis growers, police departments and dozens of municipalities. "We may not have had discussions with every practising psychologist or family doctor, but the profession has certainly been represented and we believe provides a good indicator of their opinions, views and advice," said Furey in an interview Wednesday evening. The minister said he has not and will not talk to those who are already selling pot through dispensaries.  About 31,000 people responded to Nova Scotia's online survey about the legalization of marijuana, which ran between Oct. 6 and Oct. 27. (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press) "Those who are selling cannabis now illegally, it's illegal. I don't believe that I should be engaging in those discussions," he said. "[It's] no different than my decision not to participate in the CBC panel this week. There was an individual on the panel with matters before the court. I believe it's inappropriate for the justice minister to be engaging in those discussions." Before entering politics, Furey was a career RCMP officer. VideoJoint Venture: What marijuana legalization could look like in Nova Scotia As for the future of those "illegal" operations, Furey wouldn't speculate. "No decisions have been made" regarding dispensaries and if those will be allowed to operate, he said. "We will make those decisions by the end of the year and then be in a better position to determine what retail model will be available to Nova Scotians," said Furey. Legal age and punishment The minister, as well as Premier Stephen McNeil, have said they would prefer to harmonize rules with the other Atlantic provinces. But Furey brushed aside the suggestion that because New Brunswick and Newfoundland and Labrador are looking at setting the minimum age at 19, and July first is just eight months away, it leaves little room for Nova Scotia to pick a different age. "This is not a race to the finish line. This is about getting it right."  Pot forum draws businesspeople, municipal officials Councillor to stop using word 'marijuana,' says term has racist connotations The federal government has set the minimum age of cannabis consumption to 18, although the provinces will be able to decide if the age should be higher. If someone underage is caught with it after it's legalized, Furey said the process would be similar to if an underage person was caught with it today. "The difference is the legal age. There will be limitations certainly on the amount an individual can possess. Up to 30 grams is the federal guideline. I anticipate that's a fair landing place and a reasonable amount," Furey said. Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content With files from Tom Murphy CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Video Joint Venture: What marijuana legalization could look like in Nova Scotia Pot forum draws businesspeople, municipal officials Councillor to stop using word 'marijuana,' says term has racist connotations Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now