Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia doctor shortage plan hampered by poor communications, says AG The Nova Scotia government has a plan to try to deal with the shortage of doctors in the province but is doing a poor job of communicating it, according to Nova Scotia Auditor General Michael Pickup. Social Sharing Health Department's 10-year forecast anticipates need for 512 additional family doctors Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Nov 22, 2017 8:04 AM AT | Last Updated: November 22, 2017 Nearly 40,000 people are on a wait-list for a family doctor. (Shutterstock) comments Nova Scotia Auditor General Michael Pickup has recommended the Department of Health and the Nova Scotia Health Authority find a way to prioritize the thousands of families who are on the provincial wait-list for a family doctor. The provincial family practice registry was created a year ago but according to auditors, "there is no priority based on health history or condition." According to the AG's latest report, which was released Wednesday morning, management at the health authority said it was "not possible to properly and accurately assess health status over the phone and prioritizing everyone on the registry in person is not feasible."  Prioritizing patients Despite that, auditors stand by their recommendation that the Health Department and the authority find a way to ensure people with serious health conditions are given priority. Tory Leader Jamie Baillie said the lack of priority listing makes the registry "a sham." "[People] should also expect that there are rules around prioritizing people's needs based on their health. That doesn't actually happen." Government lacks plan to deliver mental health services for all, says AG Home-care costs need more monitoring, says AG in new report The AG's office noted doctor recruitment efforts are shared between the department and the authority, something that might be hampering the work and which the authority itself suggested was a problem. "The health authority indicated this shared responsibility creates challenges in recruiting doctors as it can add extra steps for candidates to discuss incentives." 'Poor job' communicating  The AG's office also highlights a problem that has plagued health administrators for decades: A lack of adequate information coming from those managing the health system in Nova Scotia. Pickup found the Nova Scotia government had a plan to transform primary care in the province but both it and the Nova Scotia Health Authority needed to share that information with the public. Nova Scotia Auditor General Michael Pickup. (CBC) "The department and the health authority are doing a poor job of communicating publicly about planned changes to the delivery of primary care and what is being done to address family doctor vacancies," says the report. Pickup told reporters the poor level of communication "has the potential of creating a lot of the confusion or potential stress of people not knowing where things are heading." He added that officials with the department and health authority are "probably under-explaining and under-showing people what exactly they have done." "That's information, probably, the auditor shouldn't be explaining to folks," he said. Auditors found both the department and the authority had communications plans, but those efforts were hobbled because not every aspect of those plans have been approved and they are not being fully implemented. Dozens of staff There are currently five communications staffers specifically assigned to the Department of Health but it also has access to dozens more at Communications Nova Scotia. The health authority currently has a team of 23 people on its communications staff, including digital content producers, graphics designers and website design and maintenance staff. The Health Department agreed with the recommendations outlined in the AG's report and said it's working on putting them in place. The Nova Scotia Health Authority issued a similar response in a news release Wednesday and admitted there are challenges to accessing primary care, calling it "a complex problem with multi-faceted solutions — but for those without access to a family practice and who are worried about their health, the basic need is very clear." Speaking with reporters while in Cape Breton for meetings, health authority CEO Janet Knox agreed they have to do a better job of letting people know what their options are while they wait for system changes. With files from Michael Gorman CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Government lacks plan to deliver mental health services for all, says AG Home-care costs need more monitoring, says AG in new report Health care changes bogged down by bureaucracy, says consultant Health authority 'working to address' doctor shortage and other gaps Doctor leaving Dartmouth Pain Clinic says support would attract more specialists Loss of foreign doctor program cut at least 40 physicians from N.S. workforce Foreign-trained physicians in N.S. want skills assessment N.S. recruitment team heading to U.K. to attract more doctors External Links Auditor General's report on doctor shortage Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now