Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia government seeking proposals for cleanup of Boat Harbour Province issued a request for proposals Monday, saying it wants an engineering firm to design a major remediation effort that will return Boat Harbour to its natural state. Social Sharing Province looking for proposals from an engineering firm to design major remediation effort The Canadian Press · Posted: Dec 05, 2016 9:39 PM AT | Last Updated: December 6, 2016 The Pictou Landing First Nation has identified this as part of the affected area. (Pictou Landing First Nation) The Nova Scotia government is moving ahead with plans to clean up one of most polluted corners of the province. Last year, the province's Liberal government promised to close the Boat Harbour effluent treatment facility in Pictou County by January 2020, and eventually transform the filthy waterway into a clean, tidal estuary. The government issued a request for proposals Monday, saying it wants an engineering firm to design a major remediation effort that will return Boat Harbour to its natural state. Submission deadline Feb. 3 A meeting with bidders and a site visit is scheduled for Dec. 14 at the Pictou Landing Fire Hall, and the deadline for submissions is Feb. 3. When the provincial government tabled legislation to require the cleanup in April 2015, it set aside $52.3 million for the initial stages of the project. The Pictou Landing First Nation has long alleged that effluent from a nearby pulp mill has polluted the harbour. Important milestone When the legislation for the cleanup was tabled, chief Andrea Paul said it marked an important milestone for the First Nation. The bill stemmed from an agreement reached in June 2014 after the First Nation ended a blockade that started when a leak was found in a pipe carrying wastewater from the nearby Northern Pulp mill to the treatment facility. Northern Pulp was later fined $225,000 under the Federal Fisheries Act. A provincial court judge concluded the leak included 47 million litres of "toxic" effluent. Government officials have said risk assessments were needed to determine whether the contaminants in the harbour will be destroyed or sent to a secure landfill site. Northern Pulp Boat Harbour cleanup 'realistic' but price tag not clear Northern Pulp to shut Boat Harbour waste treatment plant in 2020 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Northern Pulp Boat Harbour cleanup 'realistic' but price tag not clear Northern Pulp to shut Boat Harbour waste treatment plant in 2020 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now