Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia's first legal crop of marijuana could sprout in June Nova Scotia’s first licensed cannabis producer could be ready to sell medical marijuana this spring, the company said Friday. Social Sharing Health Canada makes Breathing Green Solutions province's first licensed producer Jon Tattrie · CBC News · Posted: Nov 10, 2017 7:37 PM AT | Last Updated: November 10, 2017 Breathing Green Solutions could get a selling permit in June, if the first crop passes quality control tests. (CBC News ) Nova Scotia's first licensed cannabis producer could be ready to sell medical marijuana this spring, the company said Friday. The Wentworth Valley-based Breathing Green Solutions was added to Health Canada's authorized list Friday. It's the only one listed for the province.  Reached by phone Friday evening, CEO Bill Sanford said that means they can grow the plant, but it must then pass quality control tests at an independent lab before they can sell it. "It doesn't give us the right to sell cannabis products. That's the second part of the approval process," he said. Nova Scotia's marijuana plan expected by end of 2017 Breathing Green will now get seeds or plants from a licensed producer and start growing them in their 35,000-square-foot manufacturing facility. Sanford expects the first crop to be ready around June. "That doesn't mean that you can't produce a full crop while you're doing your test crop. It depends on whether you're willing to take that risk and fill out your facility," he said. He didn't say if they will go full scale for the test batch. Eyeing recreational market after legalization If the crop passes the tests, Health Canada will give them a permit to sell cannabis anywhere in Canada. "Under the current legislation, the producers are only allowed to sell product directly to the end user, the consumer who has a prescription," Sanford said. Should pot be sold with liquor at the NSLC? The province wants your say The federal government has said marijuana will be legalized for recreational use by July 1, 2018. The Nova Scotia government has promised to reveal its plans by the end of 2017. Sandford said Breathing Green Solutions is interested in the recreational market and would likely sell the product under the company name. The privately held company was incorporated in 2014. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Nova Scotia's marijuana plan expected by end of 2017 Should pot be sold with liquor at the NSLC? The province wants your say High hopes for Queens County marijuana producer as feds tackle backlog Stellarton urges Health Canada to green-light local marijuana plant Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now