Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Nova Scotia to create 7 new collaborative care sites, expand 7 others Locations throughout the province will receive funding for family practice nurses, nurse practitioners and social workers. Social Sharing Doctor hopes moving to a collaborative model will help recruit others to site Michael Gorman · CBC News · Posted: Mar 08, 2018 2:12 PM AT | Last Updated: March 8, 2018 Dr. Frances Moriarty looks on as Heather White speaks to reporters on Thursday. White recently joined the Pleasant Street Medical Group as a family practice nurse, making the site a collaborative care practice. (Michael Gorman/CBC) Dr. Frances Moriarty and her colleagues at the Pleasant Street Medical Group in Dartmouth always thought a family practice nurse would be a benefit to their team, but there was always the issue of how to pay for that person. That concern was recently taken off the table when the site was approved for funding from the Nova Scotia Health Authority for a family practice nurse. Heather White, the nurse who joined the practice recently, is able to see patients who don't have pressing needs and she's also able to do home visits. Moriarty said the way White is being incorporated into the practice is based on what would best help serve their patients. The SearchThey might not be doctors, but these health-care professionals say they could be doing more "Because we've all been in practice a long time, a lot of our patients are elderly," said Moriarty. "Transportation is an issue, mobility is an issue and when you see somebody struggling to get into your office who can hardly walk, it makes you think that there should be a better way to deliver care." With White's services, doctors will now be able to make house calls when they could be of benefit to their patients. 39 professionals for 23 sites Pleasant Street was one of 23 locations to receive new professionals announced Thursday by Health Minister Randy Delorey. Pleasant Street and another Dartmouth site as well as two in Kentville are each getting a nurse practitioner and family practice nurse. Two sites in North Sydney will share a nurse practitioner, three family practice nurses and a social worker, and a new site in Glace Bay will receive a nurse practitioner, family practice nurse and social worker. Sydney doctor switches to collaborative practice, takes on new patients Existing collaborative care clinics in Dartmouth, Springhill, Westville, Lunenburg, Windsor and two in Sydney will also receive funding for additional nurse practitioners, family practice nurses, a social worker and other professionals. Health Minister Randy Delorey says the province is seeing increased interest in doctors who want help creating collaborative care family practices. (CBC) The funding announcement also provides additional staff for sites in Chester, Liverpool, Kingston, Musquodoboit Valley, Pictou, Parrsboro, Hatchet Lake, New Glasgow and Sydney that would otherwise have possibly been looking at reducing patient services. Moriarty said future considerations were part of why the Pleasant Street team wanted to go the collaborative route. All of the doctors at the site, who collectively have 10,000 patients, are approaching retirement. "The reality is that we could actually all end up leaving all at once," she said. Trying to care for patients' futures "One of our concerns is the ongoing care of our patients and how do we attract new doctors to come to our practice. We've been trying to recruit for five, six, seven years very unsuccessfully." Moriarty said it's become clear most new doctors want to work in a collaborative practice, and so getting one established at Pleasant Street is the best way to try to make sure their patients are taken care of in the future. The SearchA clinic that opened in 1971 is the future of Nova Scotia health care About half of the 39 positions announced Thursday are in place and working, Delorey said. The government said with the seven new collaborative care clinics announced Thursday, there are now 57 operating in the province. About the Author Michael Gorman Reporter Michael Gorman is a reporter in Nova Scotia whose coverage areas include Province House, rural communities, and health care. Contact him with story ideas at michael.gorman@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories The Search A clinic that opened in 1971 is the future of Nova Scotia health care The Search They might not be doctors, but these health-care professionals say they could be doing more Sydney doctor switches to collaborative practice, takes on new patients Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now