Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia N.S. physician wait-list matches 10 per cent of patients in first year Doctors Nova Scotia says the number of people who need a family physician in the province is more than double than are registered on the wait-list. Social Sharing Doctors Nova Scotia urges solutions to make those with chronic illnesses a priority Carolyn Ray · CBC News · Posted: Nov 01, 2017 6:10 AM AT | Last Updated: November 1, 2017 As of Oct. 1, the wait-list for a family physician in Nova Scotia had 37,339 people registered. But the number of people who need a doctor is likely much higher, says Doctors Nova Scotia. (Shutterstock) comments Just over 10 per cent of Nova Scotians who registered for the province's wait-list for a family physician were matched with a doctor in the first year of its existence, and the need is about to increase. The wait-list currently has 37,339 people registered. The Nova Scotia Health Authority said 4,331 people who were on the list successfully found doctors as of Oct. 1.  But Doctors Nova Scotia estimates, with the help of Statistics Canada, that the number of residents who don't have a family doctor is around 100,000, since some Nova Scotians are not actively looking for a doctor. "There's no question there are many more Nova Scotians without a family physician than there are names on that list," said Kevin Chapman, director of partnerships and finance at Doctors Nova Scotia. CBC has confirmed more patients are about to be orphaned by their doctors. Six family physicians in the Halifax Regional Municipality alone will retire by the end of December. Just one of those six has a replacement in line to take on their patients.  Kevin Chapman with Doctors Nova Scotia says the priority should be finding physicians for people with chronic conditions. (Dave Laughlin/CBC) "It's hard to call it a success, but it's a good first step," Chapman said of the wait-list. "There's no question we're in trouble. Things are probably going to get worse as physicians retire, and we can't bring in physicians to replace them. So the gap widens." People can register for the wait-list by calling 811 or by visiting the website, but CBC notified the health authority that the website has been down since at least Monday. Short-term solutions needed Chapman said he's confident that long-term measures such as increasing the number of family physician residency spaces at Dalhousie University and re-establishing a skills assessment program for foreign doctors will be successful in easing the need. But those steps won't fix the urgent issues overnight, and Chapman said it's critical that those involved with the problem start looking at creative or alternative solutions. N.S. recruitment team heading to U.K. to attract more doctors "We need to be flexible in the short term," he said. "If we can get locums in for even two days a week, let's take advantage of that. We need human resources, we need primary care providers, we need family physicians and we need to be as flexible as we possibly can." Temporary clinic a success Chapman pointed to a temporary clinic that was tested in Cape Breton. There, physicians worked together to open a clinic specifically for those with chronic illnesses who did not have a family doctor. The physicians took on that work on top of their main practice, offering up a few days a month. "It was a wonderful testimony to the physicians in that community," he said. "If you got 10 physicians or 15 physicians, maybe they could each work a shift here and there, in addition to their own practice." Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area Chapman is quick to point out that physicians are currently suffering burnout, and many are nearing retirement. But he thinks a Band-Aid solution similar to the Cape Breton clinic could be what gets the province through the next few years as it waits for new doctors to earn their licences. "There's a growing list of patients that can't survive [without continuous care] and we need to figure out what do we do for those individuals because they need a family physician." International recruitment The new wait-list numbers arrive as Nova Scotia Health Authority staff return from an international job fair in London, England, to help recruit physicians. Introducing U.K. physicians to Nova Scotia--where you can practice great medicine and live a great life! <a href="https://t.co/zTNKtPCudM">pic.twitter.com/zTNKtPCudM</a>&mdash;@dr_harrigan Staff brought along Dr. Simon Bonnington, a family physician in the Annapolis Community Health Centre who immigrated from the United Kingdom himself. He is confident the recruitment efforts will make a difference.  "Until we actually get boots on the ground it's impossible to say that there is a definite recruitment. But I think that from the people I spoke with, and some of them at great length and with very significant degrees of interest, I would think that five or six should be fairly certain to want to make the move." At BMJ recruitment fair with Dr Simon Bonnington <a href="https://t.co/do3VrL4hq5">pic.twitter.com/do3VrL4hq5</a>&mdash;@dr_harrigan Change of rules Bonnington said the advantage is that the U.K. system is struggling, and many physicians are feeling disenfranchised like he was when he made the move. For the first time in his career, Bonnington said he found a work-life balance in Annapolis Royal. "My opportunity to work as a professional here, to get on and do a good job properly without intense scrutiny and excessive bureaucracy and regulation is very very refreshing," he said. "We as physicians in Canada are very much more appreciated than we are, or I was, in the U.K." Foreign-trained physicians in N.S. want skills assessment Wait list for family doctors in Nova Scotia hits 33,216 Bonnington said the recruitment team will continue to reach out to the dozens of physicians who showed various levels of interest in relocating to Nova Scotia. He said there was an even split between family physicians and specialists who approached the Nova Scotians at the fair. He said one thing that will work to the province's advantage is that the rules have changed significantly since he arrived in 2010, making it easier for physicians from the U.K. to work in the province. "It really was a struggle. It really was an uphill venture," he said. He credits the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia with changing the rules and streamlining the process.  "The barriers, the hurdles are much less than I had faced eight or nine years ago. I'm hoping that that would give the opportunity for physicians to look at this as a realistic immigration option." Readers who wish to share their story about searching for a physician can contact Carolyn.Ray@cbc.ca. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Patient calls for new rules after family doctor retires without notice Nova Scotia's foreign-trained doctor tests could start next year Health minister will consider recommendations by Doctors Nova Scotia, but says problems are complex Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now