Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia N.S. recruitment team heading to U.K. to attract more doctors For the first time, staff from the province's Immigration Department will join the Nova Scotia Health Authority at a jobs fair for health professionals in an effort to attract more doctors. Social Sharing Provincial representatives will attend an international jobs fair for health professionals The Canadian Press · Posted: Oct 19, 2017 8:52 AM AT | Last Updated: October 19, 2017 Staff from the Immigration Department will join the Nova Scotia Health Authority in London this weekend for the British Medical Journal Careers Fair. (Goodluz/Shutterstock) Nova Scotia is trying a new, two-pronged approach to attracting doctors, following up on a pledge from Premier Stephen McNeil after voters sent a clear message they were losing faith in the health-care system. For the first time, staff from the province's Immigration Department will join the Nova Scotia Health Authority at an international jobs fair for health professionals. Wait list for family doctors in Nova Scotia hits 33,216 The new recruitment team is headed to London to attend the British Medical Journal Careers Fair on Friday and Saturday. The job fair is one of Europe's most prominent recruitment venues, where more than 1,800 physicians are expected to be looking for opportunities abroad. Campaign promises Dr. Simon Bonnington, a family physician originally from the United Kingdom who has practised in the Annapolis Valley for seven years, will be part of the recruitment team. "Sharing our combined health-care and immigration expertise will help us promote Nova Scotia as a great place to live and work to doctors abroad," Health and Wellness Minister Randy Delorey said in a statement released Wednesday. Recruiting more doctors became the main issue in the latter half of the provincial election campaign, which saw the Liberals win a reduced majority on May 30. (Andrew Vaughan/Canadian Press) The province's bid to improve recruitment follows a political backlash over the Liberal government's failure to deliver on a previous promise to ensure that every Nova Scotian has access to a family doctor. It became the main issue in the latter half of last spring's provincial election campaign, which saw the Liberals win a reduced majority on May 30. 100,000 without a doctor In his victory speech, the premier pledged to recruit more doctors, expand health services and address wait times for hip and knee replacements, particularly in Cape Breton, where at least three Liberals went down to defeat, including a high-profile cabinet minister. As of Sept. 1, 35,777 people — about four per cent of Nova Scotia's population — had registered with the health authority's Need a Family Practice registry, indicating they do not have a primary care provider. Long-promised plan to ease doctor shortage remains on hold Nova Scotia needs to recruit 100 doctors a year for next decade, group says Statistics Canada figures from last year suggest the total number of citizens without a doctor is over 100,000, if you include those who haven't signed up on the registry. In a region that has one of the country's oldest and sickest populations, doctor recruitment has proven to be a difficult task. N.S. has a lot to offer Doctors Nova Scotia estimates a current shortfall of 65 family doctors, and the organization is calling for the recruitment of about 500 additional primary care physicians over the coming decade. Dr. Lynne Harrigan, a spokesperson for the health authority, said officials from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Nova Scotia will also be part of the recruiting drive. Recruitment efforts lure 16 doctors to Cape Breton Nova Scotia government readies plan to address doctor shortage "We've had success with recruitment and retention of physicians from the U.K.," said Harrigan, vice-president of medicine and integrated health. "Nova Scotia has a lot to offer doctors: the opportunity to practise medicine on collaborative teams, enjoy the balanced pace of the East Coast, and be a key part of their community." Immigration Minister Lena Metlege Diab said her department's staff will provide potential recruits with information on the immigration process. Nearly half of Nova Scotia's ER patients don't have actual emergencies CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories German doctor frustrated by rules that prevent him from practising in N.S. Long-promised plan to ease doctor shortage remains on hold Nova Scotia needs to recruit 100 doctors a year for next decade, group says Nova Scotia Health Authority to conduct exit interviews when doctors leave Nearly half of Nova Scotia's ER patients don't have actual emergencies Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now