Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia NSGEU to challenge wage package bill in court A notice of intended action was sent to the provincial government on Wednesday. Social Sharing Notice of intended action sent to provincial government on Wednesday Emma Davie · CBC News · Posted: Aug 30, 2017 6:46 PM AT | Last Updated: August 30, 2017 A notice of intended action was sent from the NSGEU to the provincial government on Wednesday. (Catharine Tunney/CBC) The Nova Scotia Government and General Employees Union (NSGEU) has given notice to the provincial government that it intends to challenge Bill 148 in court. Last week, the Liberal government announced it was proclaiming Bill 148, which defines a wage package for all 75,000 public sector workers currently without a contract. This includes health-care workers and members of the civil service. The notice of intended action states the union intends to ask the Nova Scotia Supreme Court to rule Bill 148 unconstitutional and in violation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. NSGEU members 'fed up' A copy of the notice says it was sent to lawyer Edward Gores with the provincial government on Wednesday. "Our members are fed up," said NSGEU president Jason MacLean on Wednesday. "They already gave me direction, if [Bill 148] was going to be proclaimed to go ahead and challenge it, and that's where we are today. "We believe the bill in its entirety is unconstitutional, and that's what we're challenging." MacLean called the bill "punitive" and said it takes away members' freedom of association and freedom of expression. Union cries foul over limited constitutional review of wage package deal Province submitted sections for review The provincial government said previously that the legislation would be sent to the Nova Scotia Court of Appeal for an opinion on its constitutionality. NSGEU president Jason MacLean said members will attend a rally at Province House on Sept. 21 to oppose the bill. (CBC) But MacLean said only parts of the bill were being sent for review. "When you look at those pieces alone, it brings them out of context," MacLean said. "If McNeil would take it to the Court of Appeal in its entirety, we would have an expedited answer. We'd have it in approximately six months. But he seems to want to play games with Nova Scotians.… He's entering into a much more expensive situation by going through the courts to fight it."? ?Government 'confident' in the legislation While no one from the provincial government was available to speak to CBC News directly, director of media relations Tina Thibeau emailed a statement on Wednesday evening. "It is their right to initiate action. We are confident in the legislation. Our position will be advanced in court," she said. MacLean said while they wait for a court date, NSGEU members will be joining in a rally held by the Nova Scotia Federation of Labour at Province House on Sept. 21 to oppose the bill. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Liberals proclaim bill to impose wage package on public sector unions Unions condemn Grits for proclaiming bill imposing wage package Union cries foul over limited constitutional review of wage package deal External Links Notice of Intended Action Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now