Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia NSLC's cannabis stores are going old school with product behind the counters Nova Scotians nostalgic for the good ole days when buying liquor meant having their favourite brand hand-delivered by a store clerk behind a counter are going to love the new cannabis store model. Social Sharing Customers will lineup into a queue system and then place their orders with a clerk Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: May 07, 2018 3:45 PM AT | Last Updated: May 7, 2018 At the NSLC locations selling cannabis, customers will line up, place their orders, which clerks will fill from behind a counter, and the order will be placed in a sealed brown paper bag. (Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation) Nova Scotians nostalgic for the good ole days when buying liquor meant having their favourite brand hand-delivered by a store clerk behind a counter are going to love the new cannabis store model the Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation will be using. Customers will line up, consult menus and place their orders, which clerks will fill from behind a counter. The orders will then be placed in a sealed brown paper bag. NSLC to stock hundreds of cannabis products — just not many from here: CEO In the 11 NSLC locations being renovated to include pot sales, the transactions will take place in an area of the store that will be behind a frosted glass enclosure. The 12th location will be a standalone outlet on Clyde Street in downtown Halifax. That location will be the only one where a buyer will be able to smell product samples. This archival photo shows what a former NSLC outlet on Buckingham Street in Halifax looked like. Just like this store, NSLC locations selling cannabis will keep the product behind the counter. (Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation) "All product will be fully sealed, in most cases in medicinal-style bottles," said Tim Pellerin, the company's chief operating officer. The cannabis stores will also be off limits to anyone under 19. The federal bill to legalize cannabis isn't finished yet and may not be completed in time for the anticipated July 1 deadline originally envisioned by the federal government. The province's only standalone cannabis store will open this summer on Clyde Street in downtown Halifax. (Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation) Pellerin described the "cannabis zones" within existing stores as similar to airport washrooms. "Where there's boys to the right and girls to the left," he said. "That entry point ensures that there's an appropriate entry and exit that we can control." 3 more NSLC stores to be renovated to sell cannabis this fall Clerks hired to staff the new cannabis operations still need to be trained. Twenty suppliers that bid to grow and sell cannabis to the liquor corporation are still being evaluated. "We need to make sure we have enough of an assortment to satisfy the needs of Nova Scotians, but we also need to make sure the supplier base is diverse enough given the industry itself is quite new," said Dave DiPersio, NSLC's chief services officer. This poster features information the NSLC would like its customers to know about its stores and cannabis. (Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories In Nova Scotia, prepare to drive a long way for your pot NSLC to stock hundreds of cannabis products — just not many from here: CEO Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now