Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Obstetricians struggle with $30K increase for insurance Many of the province’s obstetricians are thinking about leaving Nova Scotia or retiring if policy changes aren’t made soon. Social Sharing Province has 40 specialists, and nine plan to soon retire or leave Melissa Mancini · CBC News · Posted: Apr 10, 2015 5:45 AM AT | Last Updated: April 10, 2015 Nova Scotia obstetricians worry about the burden the shortage will place on pregnant women. ( REUTERS/Carlos Barria) comments Many of the province's obstetricians are thinking about leaving Nova Scotia or retiring if policy changes aren't made soon. "We are facing an obstetrical coverage crisis in Nova Scotia," said Dr. Don Wescott, the only full-time obstetrician in Antigonish. Obstetricians are facing a drastic increase in the fees they pay for malpractice insurance to the Canadian Medical Protective Association (CPMA). The province had been funding the malpractice insurance to the tune of 90 per cent, less a $1,500 deductible. This year physicians found out they would only be reimbursed the same amount of money given in 2014. Since the fee for obstetricians went up $30,000 this year, they are on the hook for that increase. Obstetricians on the hook for $30K increase in dues On Wednesday night 24 obstetricians went on a conference call to talk about the increased fees. There are about 40 doctors in this specialty in the province. Amherst obstetrician Robyn MacQuarrie says nine of those doctors are thinking about retiring or leaving Nova Scotia. It adds another burden on a specialty facing recruitment problems. Wescott submitted his resignation six months ago, telling the health authority he would work for six more months unless they were able to recruit someone to help him. Right now he is on call two out of every three nights. The only other obstetrician in Antigonish is part time. No one signed up to take his place yet. No young obstetrician in their right mind would want to move here.- Dr. Don Wescott "I can't see us attracting high quality physicians who will be planning to become part of rural Nova Scotia communities like I have been for the last nearly 20 years," he said. Wescott and his colleague treat patients from as far away as Cape Breton. He worries what will happen to women facing high-risk pregnancies if they have to travel another half hour to New Glasgow, or even further to Truro or the IWK in Halifax. "That's an onerous weight to put on these young, labouring mothers," he said. Recruitment issues Physicians coming out of medical school graduate with an average debt of $200,000. This increased out-of-pocket fee is going to scare away new grads, says MacQuarrie. Wescott agrees. "No young obstetrician in their right mind would want to move here unless they were independently wealthy," he said, adding the financial attractions in other provinces are much higher. MacQuarrie herself is a new graduate practicing part-time in Amherst. This is not a case of rich doctors not wanting to pay a fee, she said. "I love working in rural Nova Scotia. I find my job incredibly rewarding," she said. "But it's not an issue of I'm not making enough money, it's an issue of I'm losing money and I can't afford to do that." MacQuarrie has paid $4,500 a month since January for her insurance. This month she will get a quarterly cheque from the province that won't even cover a month's worth of those fees. "I have to continue to pay all the costs but it's not like there's a way to go and generate increased income," she said, adding she still has to pay administrative staff and cover other costs of being in practice.  Contract negotiations underway No other province has stopped paying the full tab for malpractice insurance fees, the doctors say. The Department of Health and Wellness and Doctors Nova Scotia wouldn't speak to the concerns raised by the province's obstetricians. The two groups said they wouldn't be commenting because they are entering into contract negotiations. The contract expired March 31. Wescott, a past president of Doctors Nova Scotia and a signatory to that contract,  says he thinks the government should still be paying the agreed upon 90 per cent minus deductible. "Government has simply ignored that contract," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Obstetricians on the hook for $30K increase in dues Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now