Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Indigenous Ontario First Nation to grow medical marijuana The Wahgoshig First Nation is partnering with DelShen Therapeutics to convert a former forestry operation near the town of Kirkland Lake into a facility that will grow "pharmaceutical grade" pot. Social Sharing Facility could provide up to 100 jobs for the Wahgoshig First Nation CBC News · Posted: Nov 27, 2015 4:52 PM ET | Last Updated: November 30, 2015 An Ontario First Nation is partnering with DelShen Therapeutics to become a federally licensed producer of medical marijuana. (THE CANADIAN PRESS/AP, Seth Perlman) Up North7:48Northern Ontario First Nation signs deal with medical marijuana companyWahgoshig First Nation, near Matheson, and DelShen Therapeutics have announced an agreement going forward to develop a medical marijuana growing operation. 7:48 A tiny northern Ontario First Nation has announced plans to get into the medical marijuana business. The Wahgoshig First Nation, near Kirkland Lake, is partnering with an Ontario company called DelShen Therapeutics to convert a former forestry operation into a facility that will grow "pharmaceutical grade" pot. The medical marijuana grown will be a strain developed in the Netherlands, specifically for medical purposes. The entire operation is expected to cost $18-million. In a press release, chief David Babin said the First Nation has chipped in $2-million of that cost. "This investment exceeds all of our long-term sustainable economic development criteria. We believe Wahgoshig's investment in DelShen's success will benefit the entire region," stated Babin. The venture is expected to create 30 jobs during the start-up phase and up to 100 jobs once the facility is fully operational. There will be a training program developed to ensure people from the Wahgoshig First Nation get a crack at those jobs. This has a huge potential impact for a community with a population of 234. "Bringing a new industry like pharmaceutical grade marijuana to the region gives aboriginal people more opportunities to stay here to work at good, safe jobs," said NDP MP Charlie Angus. Wahgoshig and the proposed facility are located in his riding of Timmins-James Bay. The Penticton Indian Band in British Columbia's Interior is proposing to build an on-reserve medical marijuana facility that caters specifically to health conditions afflicting indigenous populations. (Ho/CP)?Wahgoshig is not the first First Nation to consider medical marijuana as an option for economic development. In 2014, the Penticton Indian Band in BC announced that it was also developing a multi-million dollar growing facility. In 2013, the Tobique First Nation in New Brunswick was working with an American company to build a medical marijuana research and treatment facility. Penticton Indian band considers growing medical marijuana Maliseet First Nation looks to grow medical marijuana Medical marijuana is regulated by Health Canada, which lists 26 licensed producers across the country — 14 of which are in Ontario. In Friday's press release, DelShen says the northern Ontario project is "awaiting notification on the final step toward receiving its production licence." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories South Dakota tribe develops marijuana resort after legalizing pot External Links Wahgoshig First Nation Company website for DelShen Therapeutics Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now