Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI Opposition questions omission of carbon pricing from provincial budget In the provincial legislature Thursday, the official opposition questioned government about why possible revenue from carbon pricing was not mentioned in the 2017-18 budget. Social Sharing Official opposition says possible revenue from carbon pricing should be accounted Sarah MacMillan · CBC News · Posted: Apr 20, 2017 9:19 PM AT | Last Updated: April 21, 2017 PC MLA Darlene Compton said revenue from carbon pricing should have been included in the provincial budget. (Rick Gibbs/CBC) In the provincial legislature Thursday, the official opposition questioned government about why possible revenue from carbon pricing was not mentioned in the 2017-18 budget. The federal government has given provinces a deadline of January 1, 2018 to implement carbon pricing. "Why is there no contingency for it in the budget? This budget is covering part of the year that will have carbon tax, and what is this government's plan for that?" said PC MLA Darlene Compton in an interview following question period. Wait to see what other provinces do Compton questioned Finance Minister Allen Roach during question period about why there is no mention of carbon pricing in the 2017-18 budget. Roach said that he doesn't want to rush the process. He noted that other Atlantic provinces haven't announced their carbon pricing plans either, and government wants to wait "to see what deals the other provinces are going to cut." Finance Minister Allen Roach said he wants to see what other provinces do before deciding on a carbon pricing plan. (Rick Gibbs/CBC) "This is one of those situations where I think it's imperative that we don't get out ahead of the other provinces, that we don't make quick decisions," said Roach. 'We're not sitting doing nothing' Compton said with just over eight months left before the January 1 deadline, islanders should know what carbon pricing will look like, and how it will affect them. "As families, how are they going to budget for another tax?" said Compton. The George Coles building in Charlottetown, P.E.I., where the legislature is currently sitting. (Kerry Campbell/CBC) Roach said by taking more time to determine its carbon pricing plans, he hopes the pricing system will be "as good as it can be" for people on P.E.I. "We're not sitting doing nothing. We're looking at a number of different ways that the carbon pricing could be applied. We're looking at, you know, if we look at one way, we say okay how does that affect low income islanders? How does that affect industry?" said Roach. Roach said he expects the process of looking into carbon pricing options, and what to choose for P.E.I., to continue into the fall. MORE P.E.I. NEWS | 'Everyone is excited': Spring lobster season set to begin MORE P.E.I. NEWS | 'Dangerous precedent': Group fights to protect junior hockey players' rights as workers CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now