Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Organized crime will get edge on legalized pot, Manitoba premier says Premier Brian Pallister thinks gangs and organized crime will get the upper hand on controlling sales of pot once marijuana is legalized for recreational use next year. Social Sharing The federal government is legalizing cannabis by July 2018, but Brian Pallister says Manitoba isn't ready CBC News · Posted: Oct 24, 2017 9:26 AM CT | Last Updated: October 24, 2017 Manitoba doesn't have enough time to prepare for the federal government's deadline on pot legalization, Premier Brian Pallister says. (Robert F. Bukaty/Associated Press) comments Premier Brian Pallister thinks gangs and organized crime will get the upper hand on controlling sales of pot once marijuana is legalized for recreational use next year. That's because the federal government is requiring provinces to lay bare all of their plans by publicly outlining how they plan to sell and regulate pot. "The business plan's going to be laid out for the whole country, in front of the gangs and organized crime who are your principal competitors," the Manitoba premier said. "They're going to know your entire business plan and you're not ready. It doesn't make sense, but we're moving ahead as best we can to get ready." The federal government is leaving it up to the provincial and territorial governments to implement their own laws once legalization occurs in 2018. OpinionLegalize it, but please don't let the air our kids breathe go to pot Manitoba First Nation makes major investment in pot company Pallister has repeatedly stated, and did so again  Monday, that the process is moving forward too quickly, leaving Manitoba without enough time to prepare for the federal deadline. "I've been very clear about my view on the imposition of those deadlines," he said. "I think it's dangerous to impose those deadlines. "This is a multi-faceted issue, it hits almost every department of government. It's complex and this is, in part, the reason that I've suggested we shouldn't be rushing into it." Province turns to private sector to determine how cannabis ought to be distributed and sold Federal-provincial showdown looms over legal pot deadline Pallister also cites concerns about the expected increase in people driving while high, pointing to recent data from cities in the United States where medicinal marijuana has been legalized. According to a report from The Denver Post, the number of drivers involved in fatal crashes in Colorado who tested positive for marijuana has more than doubled since 2013. Buzz kill? Brian Pallister pushes premiers to delay legalization of pot by 1 year "They're shocking [and] Washington has similar results, so that really concerns me," Pallister said. "It concerns me that lives will be lost unnecessarily because we haven't really adequately prepared." He plans to release some preliminary results on Wednesday from the public budget consultations, including a section that deals with the sale of legalized pot. More from CBC Manitoba: Testimony begins in trial of accused letter bomber, Guido Amsel 'I feel totally abandoned': Manitoba woman waiting for knee surgery Health Canada knew of massive gaps in First Nations child health care, say documents CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Opinion Legalize it, but please don't let the air our kids breathe go to pot Manitoba First Nation makes major investment in pot company Province turns to private sector to determine how cannabis ought to be distributed and sold Federal-provincial showdown looms over legal pot deadline Buzz kill? Brian Pallister pushes premiers to delay legalization of pot by 1 year Manitoba wants to know about your marijuana use as it prepares for legalization Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now