Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Calgary 'Our voices are finally being heard': 60s Scoop survivors share experiences with Alberta government The goal of the gathering is for survivors to share their experiences in the program, and help inform an official apology from the premier. Social Sharing Survivors' stories will help inform an official apology from Premier Rachel Notley in near future Lucie Edwardson · CBC News · Posted: Feb 15, 2018 6:00 AM MT | Last Updated: February 15, 2018 Survivor Terrence Crow Shoe painted on one of five canvases that will serve as a background when the premier gives the apology. (Lucie Edwardson/CBC) Alberta's Minister of Children's Services is travelling the province hearing stories from survivors of what's known as the sixties scoop. During the 1960s an unknown number of Indigenous children were taken from their parents and placed with non-Indigenous families.     Alberta government invests $230K in climate change initiatives for Kainai First Nation It's stories like Terrence Crow Shoe's that will help the Alberta government form a meaningful apology in the near future. "Homeless for most of my life. Getting shoved from home to home to home. Being physically abused," he said. Adam North Peigan heads up the Sixties Scoop Indigenous Society of Alberta. He said the impacts of the program are still being felt today. Adam North Peigan, president of SSISA, says he believes these engagement sessions will lead to improved relationships between Indigenous Albertans and the government. (Lucie Edwardson/CBC) "There's a loss of culture, loss of tradition, loss of family, a loss of a sense of a community," he said. North Peigan said it's difficult to speak to his mother — who had 12 children removed from her home — about the day she went to court to fight for them. "My mom tells me that that was the day for her where her life fell apart, and it was devastating for her to be able to go to court and hear she was never going to see her kids again," he said. "So I know my parents were very much impacted and today my mother still carries that burden on her shoulders and she's been packing that around probably for the last  50 years." But, North Peigan's hopeful these sessions are the path toward reconciliation. "We're very very honoured that our voices are finally being heard and Alberta government is finally starting to listen to us," he said. Alberta's minister of children's services, Danielle Larivee, is hosting the gatherings across the province. Minister Danielle Larivee is hosting the sessions on behalf of the premier. (Lucie Edwardson/CBC) She acknowledges that sharing their stories can be emotionally traumatic for survivors. "I'm very grateful for the courage of those individuals who are willing to share their stories," she said. Another engagement session is being held in Calgary next week. Those who cannot attend the engagement sessions can also give input online here. MORE ALBERTA NEWS | Calgary homeless shelter 'not concerned' funding may be cut after harassment allegations MORE ALBERTA NEWS | 10-year-old girl fatally injured on school trip to Castle Ski Resort About the Author Lucie Edwardson Journalist Lucie Edwardson is a reporter with CBC Calgary, currently focused on bringing you stories related to education in Alberta. In 2018 she headed a pop-up bureau in Lethbridge, Alta. Her experience includes newspaper, online, TV and radio. Follow her on Twitter @LucieEdwardson CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories One man's unsuccessful search for his long-lost brother turns up an unknown sister Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now