Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI P.E.I. can have input into Pictou mill's effluent plan, says N.S. environment minister Nova Scotia’s environment minister has fired back at P.E.I. Premier Wade MacLauchlan over his concerns about Northern Pulp's plans for a new effluent treatment facility at its mill in Pictou, N.S. Social Sharing Iain Rankin was responding to letter from P.E.I. Premier Wade MacLauchlan CBC News · Posted: Jan 25, 2018 5:00 PM AT | Last Updated: January 25, 2018 Northern Pulp is to submit an environmental assessment for its proposed treatment facility to the Nova Scotia Environment Department this summer. (Jeorge Sadi/CBC) Nova Scotia's environment minister has fired back at P.E.I. Premier Wade MacLauchlan over his concerns about Northern Pulp's plans for a new effluent treatment facility at its mill in Pictou, N.S. Environment Minister Iain Rankin responded Thursday to a letter from MacLauchlan that voiced the premier's disapproval of effluent being piped into the Northumberland Strait in 2020 when Northern Pulp upgrades its treatment system. Currently, effluent from the pulp mill goes into Boat Harbour, which feeds into the strait. In the letter, sent to Nova Scotia Premier Stephen McNeil and federal Environment Minister Catherine McKenna, MacLauchlan said he shares concerns from fishermen that an outflow pipe could have "unintended consequences" for local fisheries. P.E.I. premier opposes Pictou mill's effluent plan Pulp mill effluent shouldn't affect fishery in Northumberland Strait, says UPEI expert Speaking at the Nova Scotia legislature, Rankin said MacLauchlan is entitled to his opinions "Effluent has been treated at the Boat Harbour site and it's been going into the Strait for the last 50 years," he said. "Of course there are opportunities for people to express their opinion. There's a 30-day period for public submissions which includes anyone who lives in P.E.I. I've taken it upon myself to go out to Pictou County where I met with fishermen there and fishermen from P.E.I. have come over and I've spoken with them as well to hear their concerns and I look forward to the public to weighing in when the project is registered." Fishermen worry Northern Pulp treatment plan will create 'dead zone' Waste water treatment plant could kill lobster larvae, says PEIFA The mill — which is across the strait from eastern P.E.I. — is to submit an environmental assessment for its proposed treatment facility to the Nova Scotia Environment Department this summer. Rankin said he will be asking Fisheries and Oceans Canada for its input once Northern Pulp registers the project, and the federal department could ask for a more fulsome environmental review if it believes there could be adverse impact on the fisheries. MORE P.E.I. NEWS | P.E.I. government to buy 3 million grams of marijuana a year MORE P.E.I. NEWS | No more unsupervised breaks for P.E.I. psychiatric patients With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories P.E.I. premier opposes Pictou mill's effluent plan Fishermen worry Northern Pulp treatment plan will create 'dead zone' Waste water treatment plant could kill lobster larvae, says PEIFA Pressure prompts store to axe event featuring book critical of Northern Pulp Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now