Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI P.E.I. premier says there will be no spring election P.E.I Premier Wade MacLauchlan addressed rumours of an early election and told the Liberal Party's annual meeting there would be no call in the spring. Social Sharing Wade MacLauchlan told Liberal AGM the summer's a time "to see and to be seen" CBC News · Posted: Apr 07, 2018 6:35 PM AT | Last Updated: April 7, 2018 P.E.I. Premier Wade MacLauchlan told the Liberal Party's AGM there will be no election call in the spring. (Laura Meader/CBC) P.E.I. Premier Wade MacLauchlan told the Liberal Party's annual meeting there will not be a spring election in the province. Members of P.E.I.'s Conservative and Green parties had voiced their concerns about a possible early election call.  "Of course there will be an election sometime, but there will not be an election in the spring of 2018," said Premier Wade MacLauchlan from the podium.  "We still have work to do," MacLauchlan told party members at the annual general meeting.  "We are happy to be in the legislature for a full sitting of the house."  MacLauchlan advises districts to get ready P.E.I's premier did hint an election would likely not wait until fall 2019, the time when fixed-date legislation states it should be held.  "We've got to be ready," MacLauchlan said.  "You might want to consider having a nomination before the end of June," he told the crowd.  MacLauchlan stressed he wasn't making an announcement, but talked about timing, and pointed out that summer is a good time to talk to people.  "Summer is a great time to get around and for our candidates to be known, to see and be seen, and to be in touch with and to listen to Islanders," he said.  President of the PEI Liberal Party, Scott Barry says the Liberals are doing well and the party is focused on getting ready for an election when the call comes. (Laura Meader/CBC ) Liberals work on candidate recruitment Scott Barry, president of the P.E.I. Liberal Party said the party is busy identifying candidates and people interested in seeking nominations for the various districts.  "We want to make sure we are ready to go," Barry said in response to MacLauchlan's remarks.  "He's ruled out the spring and the summer and I guess we'll stay tuned," Barry said.  The party also passed a motion at the meeting focusing on a commitment to diversity and inclusive representation. The motion calls for a renewed focus on attracting candidates who are traditionally underrepresented such as women, minorities and people with disabilities.  More P.E.I. news Mooseheads, Islanders to pay respects to Saskatchewan team P.E.I. boosts spending, retains surplus in 2018 budget CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now