Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI P.E.I. legislation outlines what you can and can't do with cannabis The P.E.I. government wants to create a new corporation to handle the sale of cannabis in the province and is placing limits on smoking around children and the transportation of marijuana. Social Sharing No consumption in vehicles or boats, unless private dwellings Krystalle Ramlakhan · CBC News · Posted: Apr 10, 2018 5:49 PM AT | Last Updated: April 10, 2018 Legislation for cannabis on P.E.I. was tabled Tuesday afternoon. (CBC News) The P.E.I. government wants to create a new corporation to handle the sale of cannabis in the province and is placing limits on smoking around children and the transportation of marijuana. Legislation tabled by the government on Tuesday says people won't be able to consume cannabis in a private dwelling where there's a private school at any time students are receiving instruction there. The same goes for early childhood centres, whether they are licensed or unlicensed. Marijuana seeds and seedlings to be sold by P.E.I. government, but not edibles P.E.I. sets legal age for pot at 19, to be sold in government-owned stores and online The legislation also says you won't be able to consume cannabis on vacant land open to the public.  In terms of transportation, people won't be able to consume cannabis or medical cannabis in or on a vehicle, whether it is in motion or not. You won't be able to consume cannabis in or on a boat either, except if the boat is a private dwelling.  Can transport unopened or packed away product But people will be able to transport cannabis in a vehicle if it's in an unopened package or is packed in a container that is fastened closed and not readily available and has been lawfully purchased.  The legislation clarifies that the act should not be construed as allowing people to smoke cannabis in a place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke-free Places Act. As well, no one is supposed to sell or give cannabis to someone who appears to be intoxicated or impaired. The bill also brings in a matching set of penalties for driving while drug impaired as for driving while impaired by alcohol. New corporation in charge of sales Part of the new bill will also create the P.E.I. Cannabis Management Corporation to be in charge of sales with its own board of directors and staff.  Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram A final date for when cannabis will become legal in Canada is not known yet, but Finance Minister Heath MacDonald says P.E.I. will be ready.  MacDonald says government has created policies to reduce the illegal market and help Islanders make informed choices while protecting their health and safety. More P.E.I. News Charlottetown vies for $10M Smart Cities prize How a P.E.I. village is taking its health into its own hands About the Author Krystalle Ramlakhan Krystalle Ramlakhan is a multi-platform journalist with CBC Ottawa. She has also worked for CBC in P.E.I., Winnipeg and Iqaluit. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Marijuana seeds and seedlings to be sold by P.E.I. government, but not edibles P.E.I. landlords update smoking policies in anticipation of legal pot P.E.I. medical pot policies need changing, says advocate 1 pot store for Charlottetown area 'far fetched,' public meeting hears Tax on medical marijuana 'unfortunate,' says P.E.I. grower Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now