Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon People think Premier Brad Wall stepping down for negative reasons, poll suggests According to a new poll, a majority of people asked think Premier Brad Wall is getting out of politics to avoid the fallout from bad decisions making. Social Sharing 55 per cent of people think Brad Wall avoiding political fallout CBC News · Posted: Sep 20, 2017 12:53 PM CT | Last Updated: September 20, 2017 There's a new poll out that asks people for their thoughts on the news that Brad Wall will retire as premier. (Audrey Neveu/SRC) According to a new poll, a majority of people asked think Premier Brad Wall is getting out of politics to avoid the fallout from bad decisions making. The poll was conducted by Insightrix between Sept. 12 and 14. It asked why people think Brad Wall is leaving politics. Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall retiring from politics Negative reasons were mentioned by 55 per cent. The majority in that group felt that the premier had decided to retire to avoid the fallout of poor decisions. Six per cent within that group cited the Global Transportation Hub land deal, a story brought to light by CBC's iTeam, as one factor. Wall announced in August that he was retiring from politics after 14 years as the leader of the Saskatchewan Party. "Together with [my wife] Tami, I have decided that now is the time for renewal ­— for my party, for the government, for the province. It's time for me to retire from politics," Wall said on Aug. 10. "I believe, though, that to best ensure continued success in that work, Saskatchewan needs renewal, a fresh perspective in leadership." CBC's full coverage of the GTH land deal Confused about the GTH land deal? Here's a short explainer video At the same time, 30 per cent of respondents believed the premier is stepping down for positive reasons, suggesting that 10 years was enough and that it is time for Wall to move on. About eight per cent within that group suggested Wall might want to spend more time with his family. In terms of the impact of Wall's departure, 41 per cent of those asked suggested that the premier's departure will be a good thing for the province. There were 800 SaskWatch Research panel members randomly sampled for this poll. This is a non-probability sample and so margins of error do not apply.   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now