Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Police investigating 3 new sexual assault claims against Saskatoon massage therapist Police say they’re investigating three new allegations of sexual assault against a Saskatoon registered massage therapist. Another woman spoke to CBC today, with her own allegation of sexual assault, bringing the number of women with allegations to six. Social Sharing Six women have come forward with allegations against Mark Donlevy Dan Zakreski · CBC News · Posted: Dec 08, 2016 11:19 AM CT | Last Updated: December 8, 2016 Six women allege they were sexually assaulted while getting treatment from Mark Donlevy. (The Dirty) Police say they're investigating three new allegations of sexual assault against a Saskatoon registered massage therapist. Mark Donlevy, 48, is facing two charges of sexual assault. He appeared in court earlier this week. These assaults are alleged to have happened in 2013 and this summer. Saskatoon massage therapist facing sexual assault charges The three new complainants came forward after police released information on the first two sets of allegations. 'You have no protection' massage association warns after masseur arrested Another woman spoke to CBC today, with her own allegation of sexual assault, bringing the number of women with allegations to six. The woman identified herself to CBC. We are not naming her because of the nature of her allegations. 'Just take everything off' The woman said she had gone to Donlevy's home at 1205 Main Street for a general massage in the summer of 2013. 'You have no protection' massage association warns after masseur arrested She said that he had a basement office with a massage table, television and couches. She said that the experience didn't feel right from the beginning. "He told me not to wear anything … just take everything off and go on the table," she said. Typically, therapists will give patients the option of wearing undergarments, a towel wrap or going nude. She says that Donlevy began by massaging her back and then slowly moving down between her legs. He spoke about how internal muscles could be affecting her tailbone, "and then he started talking dirty, about how this was turning him on." The woman said that Donlevy then undressed and had intercourse with her. "I told him continuously to stop but I'm not very forceful," she said. "Do I wish I'd found some way to make him stop? Yes. But I'm not going to go through all the victim blaming. I froze." Coming forward The woman said she decided to speak out now because the other two victims came forward. "When I heard those stories, I decided to come out," she said. "There's relief that I'm not the only one. Relief that he will be stopped." Donlevy is scheduled back in court on Dec. 20. Massage therapist allowed to practise despite sexually assaulting client  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now