Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Police raids send message to Winnipeg pot shops: Weed isn't legal yet Pot isn't legal yet, and Winnipeg police appear to have made that fact loud and clear after raiding two dispensaries last week. Social Sharing Winnipeg Compassion Club ends operations after 3 men charged Austin Grabish · CBC News · Posted: Jan 17, 2018 12:45 PM CT | Last Updated: January 18, 2018 Police raids on Winnipeg pot shops CBC News Manitoba3 years ago 1:49Pot isn't legal yet, and Winnipeg police appear to have made that fact loud and clear after raiding two dispensaries last week. Police raided two Winnipeg Compassion Club shops last Monday on McPhillips Street and Pembina Highway, seizing approximately $25,000 worth of pot, $20,000 of the plant in alternative forms and $6,000 in cash. 1:49 Pot isn't legal yet, and Winnipeg police appear to have made that fact loud and clear after raiding two dispensaries last week. Police raided two Winnipeg Compassion Club shops last Monday on McPhillips Street and Pembina Highway, seizing approximately $25,000 worth of pot, $20,000 of the plant in alternative forms and $6,000 in cash.  Photos of pot edibles including chocolate bars, gummy bears and suckers were included in a police news release on Wednesday morning. (Winnipeg Police handout)Three men, aged 45, 28, and 27, have been charged with numerous drug offences as well possession of proceeds of crime. They have been released with court-ordered appearances set. The club's Facebook page says it is "no longer open." Neil Kaplan, a lawyer for the club, has told CBC News he plans to vigorously challenge the allegations and his client would comment in the near future on the matter.  Police say the raids, which came after a months-long investigation, yielded a number of items that could put young children at "significant medical risk." A news release from police about the raids included photos of pot edibles such as chocolate bars, gummy bears and suckers.  Most Manitoba municipalities plan to allow cannabis sales More than 100 applicants vie for up to 4 pot retailer spots? Trudeau says pot purchasers are funding gangs, organized crime "They're things that would be very enticing to a child and potentially medically disastrous for a child, so really it's about public safety," said Winnipeg police Const. Rob Carver. 'It lacks common sense' Kirk Kirby has used marijuana for about a decade to help deal with pain caused by Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease — a form of muscular dystrophy. He said the club's shutdown will be a problem for people like him. "I'm feeling a little bit aggravated and a little bit sick because you're left wondering in the end where you're going to source medicine from." He said he has a licence to grow marijuana but had issues growing it himself, so he turned to the Compassion Club for help. He's disappointed to see it closed. "It lacks common sense when legalization is around the corner." Cannabis advocate Steven Stairs said he wasn't surprised by the raids but hoped there would have been a moratorium on cannabis-related arrests with legalization coming to Canada this year. (CBC)Winnipeg cannabis advocate Steven Stairs said he wasn't surprised by the raids but hoped there would have been a moratorium on cannabis-related arrests with legalization coming to Canada this year. Stairs said the public will have to wait for the facts about what was going on inside the shops to come out in court. "Some people really don't deserve to be arrested, don't deserve to have criminal records and be excluded from the cannabis industry, and some people we need to have weeded out." Police say pot taken in criminal investigations is never medical grade and often has contaminants that can pose significant health risks. About the Author Austin Grabish Reporter ?Austin Grabish joined CBC in 2016 after freelancing for several outlets. ??In 2018, he was part of a team of CBC journalists who won the Ron Laidlaw Award for the corporation's extensive digital coverage on asylum seekers crossing into Canada. In 2019, he was on the ground in northern Manitoba covering the manhunt for B.C. fugitives Bryer Schmegelsky and Kam McLeod, which attracted international attention. Have a story idea? Email: austin.grabish@cbc.ca Twitter Facebook PGP key CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canadian marijuana companies search for workers ahead of legalization Medical marijuana mess: Winnipeg doctor censured after charging patients for pot paperwork Video Legalizing recreational marjiuana in Canada & what's at stake Adults will be able to carry 30 grams of pot in public, province says Brandon civil servants urge city to greenlight sale of weed Most Manitoba municipalities plan to allow cannabis sales Municipalities use poll to push province for pot revenue Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now