Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Pot policy group says Regina police being 'fairly decent' about Sask. dispensary crackdown The founder of a group that advocates for good public policy on cannabis says it is "fairly decent" of Regina police to warn dispensaries before laying criminal charges prior to legalization. Social Sharing Cannabis Regulatory Research Group founder Kathleen Thompson says Sask. pot plan is best in Canada Alicia Bridges · CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2018 1:43 PM CT | Last Updated: January 26, 2018 Cracking down on pot dispensaries operating prior to legalization is a natural part of preparations for the change, says the founder of a marijuana policy advocacy group. (Rafferty Baker/CBC) The founder of a group that advocates for good public policy on cannabis says it is "fairly decent" of Regina police to warn dispensaries before laying criminal charges prior to legalization.   Kathleen Thompson from the Cannabis Regulatory Research Group said she is not surprised that Regina police have warned dispensaries they must close or face possible charges.   Regina police getting heat on social media for warning to marijuana storefronts SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says "The timing seems understandable given the fact that the province of Saskatchewan has recently come out with its strategy in terms of dispensing cannabis, and they're allowing a very innovative approach, in allowing private sector involvement," said Thompson. "It seems like it's a natural part of the timeline and it is fairly decent of the Regina Police Service to give a heads up." Warning letters sent Regina police Chief Evan Bray said this week that police have sent warning letters to dispensary owners. Regina Police Chief Evan Bray 3 years ago 1:49The Regina police are getting cheers and jeers for saying there may be a crack down on the city's illegal pot dispensaries. 1:49 Although Thompson believes it is a necessary step toward creating a regulated system before legalization for recreational use, she expects the impact to medical users will be significant. Legal pot won't slow market for medical marijuana: advocate Sask. doctors group wants legal age of 21 for purchasing pot The Saskatchewan government announced its plans for the sale of marijuana earlier this month — the last province in the country to announce its policy. "The province, I think, was very clever to take its time and watch the other jurisdictions in coming out with its approach," said Thompson. "I think it's the best of the approaches in Canada." The Saskatchewan government has announced marijuana will be sold by private companies after the drug is federally legalized. Under the new rules, the Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority will issue about 60 retail permits to private stores located in roughly 40 municipalities and First Nations across the province. Aurora Cannabis buys CanniMed in Canada's biggest deal While she believes the plan will work well, Thompson said 60 is a small number of permits and she expects there will still be some problems with access in rural or remote areas. Overall, she thinks legalizing pot for recreational use will have financial benefits for Saskatchewan. On Wednesday, Cremona, Alta.-based Aurora Cannabis revealed it will buy rival Saskatoon-based producer CanniMed Therapeutics Inc. for $1.1 billion. With files from CBC Radio's Afternoon Edition CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Regina police getting heat on social media for warning to marijuana storefronts SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says Sask. doctors group wants legal age of 21 for purchasing pot Aurora Cannabis buys CanniMed in Canada's biggest deal Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now