Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Pot forum draws businesspeople, municipal officials Marijuana will be legalized in Canada next July 1 but how that will play out in practical terms is still a mystery to many, including municipalities and businesses. Social Sharing 'There's so much opportunity to grow,' said one attendee hoping to break into the business Norma Jean MacPhee · CBC News · Posted: Nov 02, 2017 7:27 PM AT | Last Updated: November 2, 2017 The Atlantic Cannabis Forum attracted about 100 people over two days. (Joe Mahoney/Canadian Press) Marijuana will be legalized in Canada next July 1, but how that will play out in practical terms is still a mystery to many, including municipalities and businesses. About 100 people attended the two-day Atlantic Cannabis Forum Wednesday and Thursday, staged by the Cape Breton Partnership, hoping for some answers. The agenda covered a spectrum of topics, including social policy, acceptable places for using cannabis and the projected immense gap in the supply of pot once it's legalized.  New products Former premier Darrell Dexter, now vice-chair of consulting firm Global Public Affairs, spoke at the gathering. "There are so many different products that are going to come on the market," said Dexter. "They range from standard cannabis products right through to veterinary products to cosmetic products to ointments." Three-pronged pot consultation won't include public meetings Should pot be sold with liquor at the NSLC? The province wants your say Global Public Affairs has been researching economic ventures and the potential for growth in preparation for the legalization of marijuana. Dexter said much of the development will be related to pain relief, as there's growing evidence that cannabidiol oil — a non-psychoactive ingredient in the cannabis plant — provides considerable pain relief.  Economic opportunity Port Hawkesbury mayor Brenda Chisholm-Beaton says she attended the forum to gather information to take back to her municipality.  "Part of the reason for coming is to, I guess, look at it from a regional perspective and an economic perspective as well, and also a perspective of health and wellness of our communities and what that might entail," said Chisholm-Beaton.  John Gatza is looking for business opportunties in the legal pot world. (Norma Jean MacPhee/CBC) Farmer fumes after marijuana expert made guest speaker at agriculture AGM John Gatza saw the forum as a chance to learn about developing a new career.  "There's so much opportunity to grow in the business," said Gatza, who currently runs a logging and lumber company in River Ryan.  He sees the growth and production of cannabis as a very real next step for his company.  Q&AFormer premier Darrell Dexter now a lobbyist for marijuana industry "A small production facility would be nice, maybe a storefront, like a dispensary kind of a thing," said Gatza.  Dexter sees lots of growth opportunities for Nova Scotia. "This is a clear field. If you can imagine it, you can probably do it," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Q&A Former premier Darrell Dexter now a lobbyist for marijuana industry Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now