Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Pot consumers paying less than $7 a gram, Statistics Canada survey finds Canadians are paying an average of less than $7 a gram for pot, according to Statistics Canada. More than 15,000 people have participated in a crowdsourcing initiative so far. Social Sharing Cannabis is cheapest in Quebec and most expensive in Northwest Territories Kathleen Harris · CBC News · Posted: Feb 08, 2018 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: February 8, 2018 A crowdsourcing initiative by Statistics Canada to determine how much people pay for pot has drawn more than 15,000 participants. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) comments Canadians pay an average of less than $7 a gram for pot, according to Statistics Canada data collected through a crowdsourcing pilot project. More than 15,000 Canadians have participated in StatsCan's online survey since Jan. 25, exceeding expectations of 1,000 to 2,000 entries. Broken down by province and territory, the average price for a gram of dried cannabis ranges from a low of $5.89 in Quebec to a high of $11.89 in Northwest Territories, compared to the nationwide average of $6.79, according to the data provided to CBC News. In the online survey form, StatsCan provides 2017 price estimates averaged from a variety of sources, which are higher than the data collected through this crowdsourcing initiative. StatsCan economist Conrad Barber-Dueck said this sample might report lower prices because it includes a higher rate of daily users who generally buy in bigger, cheaper quantities. Asked if people might be lowballing the price in order to drive down the retail price when cannabis becomes legal, the agency said it's hard to see collusion. Black market for pot won't end overnight StatsCan crowdsources on pot pricing Pot businesses worth billions "We don't know if people are misreporting, although at nearly 16,000 respondents from across the country, it would be difficult for respondents to have a co-ordinated effort to skew the results," said Barber-Dueck. StatsCan has been quality controlling the responses to make sure robots or "silly answers" aren't included, and so far only two per cent have been discarded. The average price reported is lower than the $10-a-gram estimate used when the federal government reached a tax revenue-sharing agreement with the provinces and territories in December. StatsCan is crowdsourcing to gather information about why Canadians use pot — and how much they pay for it. Cannabis is cheapest to buy in Quebec and most expensive in Northwest Territories. (Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg) In what is a first for the federal agency, it launched the cannabis crowdsourcing initiative to try to fill in information gaps as Canada gets set to legalize marijuana. The online questionnaire asks consumers what price they paid for what quantity and quality, what city it was purchased in and whether it was used to medicate or use recreationally. On Thursday, Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale said pricing has not been finalized, but it will be determined by market circumstances. While organized crime may try and skew pricing in its favour, he said consumers will ultimately choose products that must meet health and safety regulations. "Ultimately, that is the market that Canadians will choose, rather than dealing with a corner drug dealer who's going to sell them poison product that could kill them," he said. Goodale on $7 pot Politics3 years ago 1:25Goodale on $7 pot 1:25 Health and safety The Liberal government has framed its legalization plan around health and safety, arguing a regulated regime will keep marijuana away from minors and wipe out the illicit black market. At a recent cabinet retreat in London, Ont., Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said anyone now purchasing pot is funding criminal organizations and gangs. Many experts have warned that it could take years to make a dent in the black market, as businesses ramp up to meet demand and stabilize pricing. Competitive pricing is considered a key factor in wiping out the black market. While illegal sellers can undercut the retail market in pricing, some consumers in other jurisdictions such as Alaska have shown a preference for the regulated, tested product purchased in a retail location, even if it is more expensive. Displacing black market Thierry Bélair, spokesperson for Health Minister Ginette Petitpas Taylor, said the legislative regime will allow a competitive legal market that aims to displace the illegal market. Provinces and territories will be responsible for regulating, distributing and overseeing the retail sale of cannabis after legalization and can set prices accordingly. "We are confident legalization and regulation will help dramatically reduce the market share for organized crime," Bélair said in an email. Under the new system, consumers will access to a product that will be regulated and tested, unlike the illegal cannabis sold now, he added. Cannabis is expected to become legal later this year. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Full implementation of legal cannabis could be delayed beyond July 1 U.S. officials question whether cannabis legalization will lead to border slowdowns 'They asked for legalization, and legalization is coming:' Is 4/20 pot festival obsolete? As It Happens Conservative senator says police won't be ready for high drivers by Canada Day deadline Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now