Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Pot shops may fear reporting thefts, robberies: former dispensary owner Many pot shop owners may choose not to tell police about robberies or violent crime because they fear prosecution for selling marijuana illegally, says the former owner of Natural Healing Clinic in Regina. Social Sharing The former owner of Natural Healing Clinic says many may keep mum rather than face charges themselves CBC News · Posted: Jan 31, 2018 5:44 PM CT | Last Updated: January 31, 2018 Marijuana is sold in jars at a dispensary in Regina. Owners of dispensaries may choose not to report thefts because they run the risk of prosecution, says a former dispensary owner. (CBC News) When Dean Foster heard an employee at his Regina marijuana dispensary had been robbed at gunpoint, he and the employee discussed whether to report the crime or not. "We can just be quiet and move on about it or we can go right down to the police station and report this and go through the whole procedure," Foster recalled saying during the conversation. I just thought that I couldn't really accept the fact that this person could go around doing this.- Dean Foster Foster was the owner of the now closed Natural Healing Clinic in Regina. He said many owners of such shops may choose not to tell police about robberies or violent crime, because doing so exposes the fact they're selling marijuana illegally. In his case, though, he said he didn't hesitate to report the crime. "I just thought that I couldn't really accept the fact that this person could go around doing this," he said, adding he feared what might happen to another employee if the situation was to happen again. Opted to shut down  But given police warnings to marijuana dispensaries about potential charges if they are operating illegally, he said he decided to shut his operation down. Pot policy group says Regina police being 'fairly decent' about Sask. dispensary crackdown Regina police chief says expect 'headlines' as pot dispensaries face possible charges before legalization He would like to apply through the province's lottery system for a licence to sell marijuana, and says he felt he would be better placed to do that without the cloud or threat of charges hanging around him. SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says Regina police Chief Evan Bray says police have seen two robberies at marijuana dispensaries reported, but notes there are likely other crimes that have taken place.   "It's not uncommon for us to have someone who's doing something illegal not report a crime that happened to them for fear of some kind of repercussions," he said. 'Balancing act': police chief But Bray said when dispensary owners come in to report crimes, police don't prioritize pressing charges against them. He described it as a "balancing act," and noted that while police have to investigate and lay charges around crime, they also have an obligation to protect citizens, including marijuana dispensary owners, employees and customers. Regina police Chief Evan Bray has warned marijuana dispensaries about selling their product before the drug is legalized. (CBC News) "Our goal here isn't to try and further victimize people but really to address a situation we see as a community safety issue," he said. That includes educating dispensary owners and talking to them about what is legal and what is not, Bray said. "Even though it may not always be a comfortable discussion, it's an important one to have." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now