Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Pot legalization may reduce stigma around smoking, paraphernalia Ty Nero, owner of Treehouse Lifestyle Supplies, a head shop in Regina, thinks legalizing pot will be good for more than one type of business. Social Sharing Head shop owner thinks people will be less apprehensive about taking a look at smoking supplies CBC News · Posted: Apr 15, 2017 5:15 PM CT | Last Updated: April 16, 2017 The stigma surrounding the use of marijuana will slowly burn out, Nero says. (Rafferty Baker/CBC) Ty Nero thinks new pot legislation tabled by the federal government will make people feel more comfortable when they're shopping at his business. Nero owns Treehouse Lifestyle Supplies in Regina, a head shop that provides customers with access to tobacco products such as pipes and bongs — though they are commonly used for marijuana instead. Nero thinks the legislation might mean more people start taking an interest in marijuana in general. Already, he said he's noticed more and more people walking into the shop who are new to pot. Marijuana Party of Sask. ex-member: 'I think it's about time' As federal pot plan rolls out, Sask. government wants a few things cleared up "The stigma is going away slowly," Nero said of marijuana use. "It's just propaganda in the first place, it's not bad — anything can be abused. As long as you don't abuse it, it's fine." Earlier this week, the federal government tabled legislation which moved to legalize pot — a key campaign promise leading up to the Liberals' 2015 victory. Treehouse Lifestyle Supplies owner Ty Nero says he's noticed more and more people walking into the shop who are new to pot. (Brad Bellegarde/CBC) The federal government is looking to have regulations in place no later than July 2018. Two bills were tabled: one concerning the sale, possession and growing of weed and the other laying out the punishment for drug impaired driving.  When legalization happens, Nero thinks people and businesses, such as dispensaries, should be able to apply for a licence to buy, sell and produce marijuana. Those who don't comply with regulations should be shut down, he added. "Slowly, as time goes on, let craft cannabis and smaller producers also sell at the new dispensaries." With files from Brad Bellegarde CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Landlord group wants stricter limits on where Canadians can grow marijuana Sask. safe driving advocate encouraged by new impaired driving laws Day 6 What small-town Canada has to gain from legal weed Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now