Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Canada Pot legalization coming, so stop possession arrests, say some We know recreational cannabis will be legal within a year, so why should Canadians still be at risk of having a criminal record for pot possession? The fact that they are is an 'affront to justice,' say some lawyers and advocates. Social Sharing Imminent law 'undercuts the whole foundation for arrests and prosecutions,' says lawyer Alan Young Lucas Powers · CBC News · Posted: Apr 23, 2016 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: April 24, 2016 Tens of thousands of Canadians are arrested and charged for simple possession of cannabis each year. Relatively few cases make it to court, but a conviction can affect someone's ability to find a job or travel outside the country. (Mark Blinch/Reuters) comments The federal government's promise to begin the process of legalizing cannabis in 2017 is amplifying calls from lawyers and advocates for an end to arrests and prosecutions for some weed-related crimes that have "clogged up the system" and left tens of thousands of Canadians with a criminal record. Health Minister Jane Philpott said earlier this week, on 4/20 no less, that new marijuana legislation is coming by next spring. Philpott was speaking at a United Nations special session on drug policy, the first of its kind in 18 years. "We know it's impossible to arrest our way out of this problem," she defiantly told an audience that included representatives from countries that still hand down harsh punishments for non-violent drug offences.   Federal marijuana legislation to be introduced in spring 2017 Legalizing pot in Canada will run afoul of global treaties Police report a pot possession incident every 9 minutes in Canada Philpott provided no other details on what the legislation might look like, leaving many open questions to be answered in the coming months. If the change is imminent … one would hope the government would stop pursuing very minor cases that have clogged up the system for years.- Alan Young, lawyer But even a soft date for the new law's introduction should spur the Liberal government, which campaigned partly on a promise to end pot prohibition, to encourage authorities to put a moratorium on prosecutions, critics argue.  "Legally, of course, the law is still on the books, so people can be prosecuted and convicted," said Alan Young, lawyer and associate professor at Osgoode Hall. Young has been a key player in the anti-prohibition movement for decades.  "But from a moral point of view, if the change is imminent, that undercuts the whole foundation for arrests and prosecutions, and one would hope the government would stop pursuing very minor cases that have clogged up the system for years." Grey zone Police have admitted that until the legislation is enacted, law enforcement officers will find themselves in an awkward position, especially in instances of simple possession.  "We've really been operating in a grey zone since this government was elected," said Clive Weighill, chief of police in Saskatoon — a city where, if you're busted with pot, you have a pretty good chance of being charged — and president of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police. Legal pot taxes could add $5B a year to government coffers Canadians with marijuana convictions call on Trudeau to offer pardons "But now that there's a timeline, it's likely that we'll see the number of simple possession charges decline as we wait for the law to change." Instead, forces have turned their attention to the estimated 300 medical cannabis dispensaries across the country, he said, which remain illegal, although some municipalities have moved to regulate them through bylaws.  Mulcair to Trudeau: Remove criminal pot records Politics5 years ago 1:13NDP leader chides PM for not decriminalizing marijuana right away, and asks for a bill to clear records of people charged before a new pot law comes next year. 1:13 Young says that while there's no data yet, anecdotally, there seems to have been very little change in the rates of arrests and charges for cannabis-related offences since the Liberals formed government last November.  Law being unequally applied In 2014, the most recent year for which data is available, there were 57,314 marijuana possession-related "incidents" reported by police nationwide, according to Statistics Canada. More than 24,540 people were charged as a result. The year before that, 25,819 Canadians faced charges. A recent CBC News analysis found that where you live is a significant factor. For example, you're almost 23 times more likely to face a possession charge in Kelowna, B.C., than in St. John's.  As federal Health Minister Jane Philpott made her announcement at the UN, thousands of people gathered on Parliament Hill for 4/20, the annual celebration of pot that happens around the world on April 20. Canada has some of the highest per capita use of marijuana in the world. (Chris Wattie/Reuters) "Unequal application of the law continues to be an affront to justice," said Neil Boyd, a professor of criminology at Simon Fraser University in the Vancouver suburb of Burnaby.  Most simple possession cases never make it to court, but a conviction can affect an individual's ability to find a job and travel outside Canada for years. Charging people for having some marijuana is a waste of police time, a waste of court time and a waste of tax dollars.- Neil Boyd, criminology professor, Simon Fraser University From 2008 to 2012, 58,938 possession cases made their way through adult criminal courts in Canada. Defendants were found guilty 43 per cent of the time while the rest had charges stayed or withdrawn, according to Statistics Canada.  But some forces, such as the Vancouver Police Department, have made it clear that cannabis possession is barely on their radar when it comes to enforcement. In Toronto, individual officers are encouraged to use their own discretion when it comes to arrests.  'A waste of police time' "At this point, charging people for having some marijuana is a waste of police time, a waste of court time and a waste of tax dollars," said Boyd. "We should not continue to spend money on something this trivial, especially now." The federal government currently spends about $4 million a year trying simple possession cases, and that doesn't include the cost of enforcement and court resources.  Even some judges have started to voice frustration, which might lead to more cases being thrown out, says Bill Bogart, University of Windsor law professor.  Bill Blair, Toronto MP and former chief of police in the city, is heading up the government's effort to draft legislation making recreational marijuana legal. He has said that until a new law is passed, police should continue to enforce the current law as written. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) "I think most reasonable people, including lots of judges, would probably agree it's patently ridiculous to continue charging and prosecuting people for having small quantities of cannabis," he said.  Every source CBC News spoke to for this story said that the way to avoid needless prosecutions is to decriminalize cannabis possession until the new law is in place. NDP Leader Tom Mulcair argued for this in the House of Commons this week. He also pressed Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on whether his government would "remove the criminal record" of those convicted for simple possession.  Hazy rules means sprouting weed shops The National5 years ago 2:22A growing number of medical marijuana dispensaries have set up shop in neighbourhoods across Canada, and that's posing a dilemma for cities and law enforcement 2:22 A C.D. Howe Institute report published this week found that pardoning Canadians convicted of simple possession and throwing out any outstanding charges would free up substantial financial resources, which could defray some of the costs of legalization.  Earlier this year, MP and former Toronto police chief Bill Blair, who is leading the government's effort to draw up legalization legislation, rejected both of those proposals.  'Let's just get on with it' Pardons are a "tricky issue," says Young, and would likely require separate legislation. Young also argues that the government will have to figure out what to do with those who have been imprisoned recently for cultivating small amounts of cannabis for personal use.  "Many of these people are completely non-violent and have no connection to organized crime, yet the government has continued to pursue mandatory minimum sentences of two years in some case," Young said.  "If we legalize, we're sending a message that this activity is not serious enough to warrant criminalization, and that could extend to small-scale growers." Young says he hopes the new legislation will treat small-scale production as a regulatory infraction, rather than a criminal offence. "But at this point, who knows. Let's just get on with it and argue about all the fine details as we figure it out," he said. About the Author Lucas Powers Senior Writer Lucas Powers is a Toronto-based reporter and writer. He's reported for CBC News from across Canada. Have a story to tell? Email lucas.powers@cbc.ca any time. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Federal marijuana legislation to be introduced in spring 2017, Philpott says UN meeting could be 1st step to ending global war on drugs Pot etiquette: How to behave when marijuana is legalized in Canada Jane Philpott, Bill Blair in New York to attend UN talks on war on drugs Photos 4/20 pot rally draws tens of thousands in Vancouver Owners of Queens of Cannabis want regulations for medical pot dispensaries Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now