Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Potato lawsuit will cost taxpayers millions Saskatchewan taxpayers will have to pay close to $9 million to settle a lawsuit from the government's failed potato venture. Nearly $1.8 million of that amount will go towards legal fees. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 15, 2004 3:23 PM CT | Last Updated: October 15, 2004 Saskatchewan taxpayers will have to pay close to $9 million to settle a lawsuit from the government's failed potato venture. Nearly $1.8 million of that amount will go towards legal fees. RELATED ? Calvert orders probe into Spudco deal ? Government doesn't want to touch hot potato issue The province has announced the details of its out-of-court settlement with investors and creditors who were suing the government. They said the government misled them on the details of the potato venture. The settlement amount is in addition to the $28 million the government lost when the potato deal fell through. Peter Prebble, the minister responsible, says the settlement is fair and reasonable. "It has become clear to me as I immersed myself in this file, and assessed earlier court decisions, that our government made mistakes that exposed taxpayers to financial damages," Prebble said Friday at the legislature. "This settlement was an attempt to minimize damages to taxpayers and bring these legal claims against our government and Sask Water to a close." The Opposition says the government must hold a public inquiry into the potato deal. The Saskatchewan Party says there are still too many unanswered questions about a venture that resulted in the loss of such a large amount of money. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now