Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Premier Stephen McNeil says 'compromise' possible with teachers union Monday's meeting between Stephen McNeil and Liette Doucet was the first sign of a possible thaw in the frosty relationship between the Nova Scotia Teachers Union and the McNeil government. Social Sharing Legislation aimed at killing school boards, taking administrators out of union being delayed Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Feb 26, 2018 1:43 PM AT | Last Updated: February 26, 2018 Premier Stephen McNeil said there's 'room for compromise' between the province and the teachers union. (Steve Berry/CBC) Premier Stephen McNeil talked on Monday about a possible "compromise" in the dispute between his government and the Nova Scotia Teachers Union. It was the first sign of a thaw in what has been an ice-cold relationship between the union and the provincial government. "I don't know if we'll get to where everyone wants to be but I do believe there's always room for compromise in that," McNeil told reporters after his hour-long meeting with union president Liette Doucet at his office Monday. AnalysisExpect a long, raucous spring sitting at Province House "I believe we have certain objectives. They have certain objectives. We won't agree on everything but I believe there is definitely room for us to compromise." The government is backing off its plan to immediately bring in legislation to make the administrative changes it wants. The plan had been to introduce at least one bill tomorrow, at the start of the spring sitting, but McNeil said that would not happen. Premier Stephen McNeil says there could be 'compromise' with NSTU CBC News Nova Scotia3 years ago 1:47Premier Stephen McNeil said there's 'room for compromise' between the province and the teachers union. 1:47 Doucet also sounded more conciliatory in her brief conversation with reporters. "All I can say is that we are committed to working with the government to make improvements for our students," she said. Neither would discuss the details of their talks or say when they will meet again. However, the fact the two sides are continuing to talk is a good sign, according to Doucet. "I think it's positive that government's willing to discuss issues with us," she said. "I think it's positive that government is willing to sit down with us and to listen to what we have to say. "I'm hoping that continues." NSTU president Liette Doucet says talk with premier was promising CBC News: Halifax at 6:003 years ago 1:14Liette Doucet, president of the Nova Scotia Teachers Union, said it's positive that the government and union are meeting. 1:14 Inclusive education report coming soon For his part, McNeil sent the signal he is looking for support to implement the recommendations coming from the Commission on Inclusive Education, which is due to be released next month. "I will require classroom teachers to help me implement that report," he said. "That is ultimately where I am focused on today and beyond this session of the legislature. "Ultimately I believe that's what classroom teachers want and I believe it is what will have the greatest impact on our system." Liette Doucet, president of the Nova Scotia Teachers Union, said it's positive that the government and union are meeting. (Steve Berry/CBC) The province's announcement last month that it plans to dissolve the seven elected English-speaking school boards and remove principals and vice-principals from the Nova Scotia Teachers Union sparked a dispute with the union. The union held a strike vote last week in which 82.5 per cent of voters supported job action. McNeil said he was not surprised by the strength of the mandate. "I don't think anyone would be surprised that unions in this province haven't embraced our government," he said. School administrators given 1 year to decide on exiting union or going back to classroom CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Expect a long, raucous spring sitting at Province House School administrators given 1 year to decide on exiting union or going back to classroom Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now