Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Premier Scott Moe discusses Global Transportation Hub, proposed 3.5% public wage rollback Premier Scott Moe said he won't prevent a forensic audit on the Global Transportation Hub if it comes to that. Social Sharing Province waiting for results of RCMP investigation into GTH CBC News · Posted: Feb 05, 2018 9:54 AM CT | Last Updated: February 5, 2018 Premier Scott Moe said the province will wait for the results of the RCMP's investigation into the GTH and then caucus will make a decision about potential future moves. (The Canadian Press/Liam Richards) Premier Scott Moe said he won't prevent a forensic audit on the Global Transportation Hub if it comes to that. The province is waiting for the results of the RCMP investigation into the GTH, and then caucus will make a decision on the next step.  "We need to ensure . . . that we've looking into everything that we can and ensure that there's transparency around this," Moe told CBC Radio's Morning Edition on Monday. SUMA to tackle environmental issues, emergency response during annual convention Sask. finance minister not sure if budget will come out on time Moe was sworn in as premier last week and selected his cabinet. He was chosen as leader at the Sask. Party's leadership convention in Saskatoon last month. "The vision of the Global Transportation Hub is as necessary today as it has ever been," Moe said. He added the purpose of the infrastructure is to keep the flow of products in and out of Saskatchewan and that flow needs to be "enhanced." Moe also touched on the topic of the 3.5-per-cent public-sector wage rollback, which was proposed in the 2017 provincial budget. The target was ultimately never met due to union pushback and the reduction was suspended for the 2017-2018 fiscal year. No 3.5% wage cut? Sask. unions say they'll believe it when they see it "We need to engage very quickly as we move forward with our public-sector leaders and others to ensure that we can find a common ground as we move forward," Moe said.  Moe said it's important for people to understand "both sides" of the argument. "We need to understand that we are in times of revenue shortfalls here in the province of Saskatchewan and there are not extra dollars." With files from CBC Radio's Morning Edition CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Former Minister of Economy to head up new Sask. cabinet position Gord Wyant welcomed as new education minister, promises 'new relationship' with Sask. teachers Alanna Koch out as Premier Scott Moe completes office makeover 'A very difficult decision': Premier Scott Moe unveils new cabinet Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now