Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall's popularity dropping but he's still the preferred leader: poll Saskatchewan residents are feeling the pinch of March's provincial budget but are standing by Premier Brad Wall, according to a poll by the Angus Reid Institute. Social Sharing More than half of residents polled in Saskatoon and Regina would vote NDP if an election were tomorrow CBC News · Posted: Jun 19, 2017 8:53 AM CT | Last Updated: June 19, 2017 Fifty-eight per cent of Saskatchewan residents outside of Saskatoon and Regina would vote for the Saskatchewan Party if an election were held tomorrow, according to an online survey. (Jonathan Hayward/Canadian Press) Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall's popularity has dropped after March's provincial budget but most people in the province still say he is the best equipped to lead Saskatchewan, according to an online survey conducted by the Angus Reid Institute.  The economy was the top issue for 42 per cent of Saskatchewan residents polled, with health care a distant second at 12 per cent. Only Alberta has a higher rate of residents concerned about their province's economic challenges while Newfoundland and Labrador are on par with Saskatchewan's rate.  Sask. Party would 'most likely' lose election if held today: pollster New poll shows lowest support for Sask. Party in 8 years but premier 'surprised' by backing after budget March's provincial budget saw a projected $1.3 billion budget deficit sawed down to $685 million through funding cuts and tax raises.  Standard of living The standard of living within Saskatchewan is worse than last year, according to 42 per cent of residents polled. Another 37 per cent believe it's going to get worse in 2018. The only other province where residents feel just as uneasy about next year is New Brunswick.  A small portion of the province — nine per cent — feel their standard of living has improved over last year while a little less than half — 48 per cent — haven't noticed a difference.  Province standing by Wall If an election were held tomorrow, 48 per cent of those polled said they would still vote for the Saskatchewan Party and Brad Wall while 41 per cent would opt for the NDP.  Forty-two per cent feel Wall is still the best person to handle the province's problems, while 24 per cent think recently-resigned as interim Opposition leader Trent Wotherspoon would be a better option. Wall's popularity is down from 2016, when 62 per cent of people said they would vote Saskatchewan Party, compared to 30 per cent for the NDP.  The NDP's popularity is high in the province's two largest cities, with 55 per cent of Regina residents saying they would vote NDP and another 50 per cent in Saskatoon. The rest of the province paints a different picture, with 58 per cent of people saying they would still vote Saskatchewan Party if an election were held tomorrow.  The poll was conducted June 5-12 through an online survey of 1,053 Angus Reid Institute Forum members. A random sample of this size would yield a margin of error of +/- 3 percentage points, 19 times out of 20. Any discrepancies would be due to numbers being rounded.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Brad Wall's popularity drops in wake of unpopular budget Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now