Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Prepping for pot involves 'twice as much paperwork' for Sask.-Alberta border city "I have the opportunity to be on the conduit between two provinces that sometimes doesn’t exist, I’m finding," says the mayor of Lloydminster. Social Sharing Lloydminster falls under the jurisdiction of both provincial governments, 2 sets of rules for sale of pot Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Feb 16, 2018 6:00 AM CT | Last Updated: February 16, 2018 Lloydminster's mayor says like many Canadian mayors, his city has been waiting on more details around pot legalization from provincial and federal governments. (CBC Radio-Canada) Municipalities across Saskatchewan, like those in the rest of Canada, are preparing for the impacts of cannabis legalization. But in one place, that involves "twice as much paperwork." "This is our life every day," said Gerald Aalbers, the mayor of the city of Lloydminster, which straddles the Saskatchewan-Alberta border.  The border city falls under the jurisdiction of both provincial governments, which means it will also fall under two sets of rules for the sale and distribution of pot.  "We live this no matter if this was cannabis, alcohol, infrastructure funding — doesn't matter what item it is, we live this every day," said Aalbers. "It doesn't matter if it's a federal or provincial government program that matches up individually to each province … it means we do twice as much paperwork." White City only Sask. municipality that says it plans to opt out of pot sales — for now How the provinces are planning for pot legalization That means RCMP in Lloydminster will have to enforce two different sets of rules, as is already the case for alcohol, tobacco and traffic enforcement — issues the force deals with regularly, Aalbers said. He said like any municipality, Lloydminster is in control of its own zoning and bylaws.  'Conduit between 2 provinces' And like any city or town, it's waiting on more details on regulations around legal cannabis — but from two provinces.  From the Alberta government, Aalbers said the city is waiting to hear about buffer zones and hours of operations, which are supposed to standardized across the province. Alberta unveils marijuana framework, calls for minimum age of 18 to buy Sask. doctors group wants legal age of 21 for purchasing pot Meanwhile, Saskatchewan has yet to set a minimum age pot consumption.  Aalbers acknowledged that on this issue, he's had a unique perspective when he meets with mayors from both provinces. "I have the opportunity to be on the conduit between two provinces that sometimes doesn't exist, I'm finding." About the Author Stephanie Taylor Reporter, CBC Saskatchewan Stephanie Taylor is a reporter based in Saskatchewan. Before joining CBC News in Regina, she covered municipal politics in her hometown of Winnipeg and in Halifax. Reach her at stephanie.taylor@cbc.ca @__stephanietaylor CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories White City only Sask. municipality that says it plans to opt out of pot sales — for now How the provinces are planning for pot legalization Trade meeting with Alberta delayed by Saskatchewan's search for new premier Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now