Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Pricey pot could fuel black market trade: Regina police chief Regina police Chief Evan Bray said while Denver police couldn't attribute any increase in domestic violence to marijuana, the situation could be different in Regina or other jurisdictions. Social Sharing Denver police officer said he can't attribute any increase in domestic violence to marijuana CBC News · Posted: Jul 26, 2017 11:07 AM CT | Last Updated: July 26, 2017 Regina police Chief Evan Bray said there are concerns that people may opt for cheaper marijuana on the black market if legalized pot is too pricey. (Micki Cowan/CBC) Regina police Chief Evan Bray is concerned the legalization of marijuana in Canada and its potentially high price could drive the country's black market trade.  Speaking to CBC Saskatchewan's Morning Edition on Wednesday, Bray expanded on comments he made to CBC earlier this week about next year's planned legalization. One of the unknowns at this point is how much legal pot will cost. Bray says if the price is too high, people will buy the product from illegal dealers. Pot possession charges way down in Sask. as it preps for legalization Regina's police chief talks 'hidden' costs of marijuana legalization He also responded to comments made by Denver Police Department Commander James Henning, who said he could not attribute any increase in domestic violence to the legalization of pot, largely due to the lack of data available on the subject.  "I hope that's the case in Regina," Bray said. "We know that that underground [marijuana] market is very volatile, comes with firearms," he added.  Henning said the Denver police are more likely to make busts involving illegal marijuana and guns than cocaine or heroin busts. "It tends to be a fairly violent drug trade, believe it or not," Henning said of the U.S. black market for marijuana.  Bray said there were hidden costs to the drug's legalization, including causing problems in domestic relationships similar to alcohol, and adding extra strain on police and municipal resources.  "Let's just talk about the impaired driving piece — it's expensive, it's tough to train for and so [Denver police] tend to default down there to impaired driving," said Bray. Henning said more general "impaired driving" charges are often laid rather than charges related to specific substances because there's often more than one substance involved. Bray agreed, but said that situation is not always the case — that sometimes police find drivers impaired by drugs only, which is more difficult than alcohol to test for. In the case of Canada, Bray said there would have to be specialized training given to officers and proper technology that could administer drug testing in the field. With files from CBC Radio's The Morning Edition CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Pot legalization may reduce stigma around smoking, paraphernalia Marijuana Party of Sask. ex-member: 'I think it's about time' As federal pot plan rolls out, Sask. government wants a few things cleared up Sask. justice minister has 'real concerns' about marijuana legislation Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now