Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI Professor questions omission of carbon pricing from P.E.I. budget UPEI economics professor Jim Sentance believes the Prince Edward Island government should release the details of its carbon pricing plan immediately. Social Sharing 'I really don't know why there's all this secrecy' CBC News · Posted: Apr 09, 2018 8:31 PM AT | Last Updated: April 9, 2018 Islanders should be the ones to decide how to spend any revenue generated from a carbon pricing plan, says UPEI economics professor Jim Sentance. UPEI economics professor Jim Sentance believes the Prince Edward Island government should release the details of its carbon pricing plan immediately. Sentance said he was surprised the information wasn't in Friday's budget but provincial officials say they're still negotiating the details with Ottawa.  The federal government has asked for provinces to submit their plans by Sept. 1, with carbon pricing set to start some time this year. The idea is to put a price on pollution that will encourage individuals and industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.   Provinces have until the end of 2018 to submit carbon price plans: McKenna "I think they're leaving it a bit late in terms of allowing any discussion of what they've decided with the province," Sentance said. "You're barely leaving time to implement something, let alone change your mind or refine it."  'Give that back to the people' Sentance is less interested in how and how much the province will tax or price carbon, and more interested in how the government will spend the revenue it generates. Sentance would like to see the province's carbon pricing plan before a provincial election. (UPEI) "Some provinces have found ways to basically give that back to people," Sentance said. "Cut other taxes and maybe target a bit of money toward lower-income people so it's not a hugely regressive tax." Opposition demands government detail carbon plan No carbon pricing announcement for P.E.I. this year That way, people can decide how they can best lower their carbon footprint — be it insulating their home, installing solar panels or buying an electric car, Sentance said. If the province spends the carbon revenue on its own green initiatives, government is deciding how the Island will adjust to a lower-carbon future.  "Whatever they're doing, I really don't know why there's all this secrecy," Sentance said. He hopes to see the details on this and the audited provincial accounts before a provincial election is called, he added, so Islanders can see whether the budget's goals were achieved.  More P.E.I. News:  Opposition questions omission of carbon pricing from provincial budget No apology from Pope 'a setback' to P.E.I.'s Indigenous people, chief says With files from Laura Chapin CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now