Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Proposed tax changes could drive doctors out of country, physician warns A Sydney anesthesiologist says proposed federal tax changes would be "catastrophic" for many small business owners, including doctors. He's urging the Nova Scotia government to speak up. Social Sharing Cape Breton Medical Association held emergency meeting last week to discuss implications of tax proposal Wendy Martin · CBC News · Posted: Sep 12, 2017 6:30 AM AT | Last Updated: September 12, 2017 Dr. Craig Stone says proposed federal tax changes could be "catastrophic" for doctors. (Holly Conners/CBC) comments Cape Breton anesthesiologist Dr. Craig Stone is warning Ottawa's proposed tax changes for small businesses will make it even more difficult to recruit and retain doctors, and could even send Canadian physicians to the U.S. Stone is president of the Cape Breton Medical Association, which met late last week to discuss the implications of the proposed changes. "This is going to cause significant hardship," said Stone. "Suddenly we're going to have the rug pulled out from under our feet. This is going to be catastrophic." He said some local doctors are already talking about leaving Canada altogether. Small businesses, Trudeau government headed for autumn tax showdown Proposed changes The planned reforms, introduced by the Trudeau government this summer, include eliminating income "sprinkling," which allows incorporated small businesses to get taxed at a lower rate by shifting income to family members who don't necessarily work for them. Another reform would reduce the ability of private corporations to make passive investments in stocks and real estate. A third reform would eliminate the ability to convert a corporation's earnings into capital gains, which are taxed at a lower rate. Only 3 exit interviews done with Nova Scotia doctors in first year of project Recruitment gains in jeopardy Stone says about 70 per cent of doctors in Nova Scotia are incorporated and would see their invoices drastically reduced.  He points out that doctors, like many small business owners, have no company pensions, no employment insurance benefits and no life insurance. He says doctors use passive investment to set aside money for retirement and other contingencies. Hundreds attended a rally in Sydney Mines last spring to raise concerns about doctor shortages. (Nic Meloney/CBC) Last spring, Cape Breton doctors held rallies to call attention to the number of doctors who were leaving the island. The physicians said their colleagues were fed up with a lack of services and a lack of local leadership within the health authority. Recruitment efforts lure 16 doctors to Cape Breton The province has since announced it has recruited 16 new doctors. Stone says the new tax regime will reverse those efforts and will make it all the more difficult to convince doctors to stay in Cape Breton, or anywhere in the country. Stone says he's shocked the Nova Scotia government has not spoken out about the potential impact of the changes on recruitment in the health-care sector. Health minister promises more flexibility for doctors setting up practices Province responds A spokesperson for the Department of Finance and Treasury Board told CBC News in an email that the department is assessing the potential impact of the proposed changes. "We will provide any input to the federal government within the consultation period, as the department has done previously when the federal government has proposed changes." Ottawa is accepting comments on the proposed changes until Oct. 2. Doctor raises alarm about lack of compensation for online health tool CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Business owners in Cape Breton create website to lure doctors to area THE CURRENT 'A system that works for all Canadians': Finance Minister Bill Morneau defends tax plan Liberal plan to close tax loopholes has raised questions: Here's a look at 3 of them Conservative leader says Liberal 'arrogance' behind tax changes, pipeline snag Trudeau says tax changes aimed at ensuring wealthy Canadians pay fair share Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now