Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Province awards $2.9M contract to build long-awaited Shelburne clinic The province has awarded a contract for the construction of a medical clinic that many residents in Shelburne, N.S., have been awaiting for years. Social Sharing Warden Penny Smith says decision is 10 years in the making Ian Munroe · CBC News · Posted: Jul 29, 2017 8:00 AM AT | Last Updated: July 29, 2017 Once complete, the new medical clinic in Shelburne, N.S., will be staffed by four doctors, three nurse practitioners and a family practice nurse. (Goodluz/Shutterstock) Residents in Shelburne, N.S., are a step closer to getting a long-awaited medical clinic now that the province has awarded a Lunenburg company with a contract worth $2.88 million to build the facility. "It's been approximately, I believe, 10 years since we started this," said Penny Smith, warden of the Municipality of the District of Shelburne. "So to see it come to this point of actually awarding the tender and knowing that this clinic is going to be built and hopefully servicing our residents by next year is pretty exciting." The municipality said the province awarded the contract to Rikjak Construction Ltd. on July 14. 'No one is really doing anything': Frustrations mount over rural ER closures The province closed a medical centre next to the Roseway hospital in the town more than seven years ago so it could undergo renovations. That work was never done, and residents had been fighting for the clinic to expand and reopen. Instead, the new facility will go up at the same site. Smith said work is expected to get underway in August. Construction to begin later than promised The office of Premier Stephen McNeil released a statement in late April, days before he called a provincial election, saying the tender for the new clinic would go out April 24 and construction was expected to begin in June. ANALYSIS: McNeil's major move: Reorganizing health care A spokesperson for the province said earlier this month that the tender went out on time and closed on June 1. Brian Taylor said the review period for awarding a tender can vary depending on how complex a project is, and that the Shelburne clinic was still expected to be completed in the fall of 2018. The municipality said it's kicking in $450,000 for the new facility. The clinic will be staffed by four doctors, three nurse practitioners and a family practice nurse, the premier's office said in April. Those eight health-care providers will work together at the Roseway Hospital until the new clinic opens. With files from Anjuli Patil CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Long-awaited construction of Shelburne health-care clinic expected to start in June 'No one is really doing anything': Frustrations mount over rural ER closures Hundreds of people to be notified after patient records breached Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now