Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Provincial justice ministers want answers on marijuana legalization Canada's justice ministers are asking for clarity and support as they scramble to organize and police an entirely new marijuana industry in less than 10 months. Social Sharing B.C. Solicitor General Mike Farnworth calls Ottawa's current timeline 'a challenge' The Canadian Press · Posted: Sep 14, 2017 7:11 PM PT | Last Updated: September 15, 2017 Federal Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould, centre left, is flanked by Deputy Justice Minister Nathalie Drouin, left, and Alberta Justice Minister Kathleen Ganley, right, at the start of a meeting of federal, provincial and territorial ministers responsible for justice and public safety in Vancouver on Thursday. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) Canada's justice ministers are asking for clarity and support as they scramble to organize and police an entirely new marijuana industry in less than 10 months. British Columbia Solicitor General Mike Farnworth said he hopes this week's meeting between federal Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould and her provincial and territorial counterparts will provide more answers about how the Canadian government intends to make good on its plans to legalize pot by the summer of 2018. "Obviously, I think the July time frame is a challenge," he said. "But right now that's the timeline. That's the time frame that we're working towards." The justice ministers began two days of meetings in Vancouver on Thursday. Besides pot, the agenda includes discussions around how the justice system deals with people who don't disclose their HIV status to their sexual partners and the fallout from a Supreme Court of Canada decision that puts a time limit on how long it takes to prosecute a criminal charge. 'Tremendous risks' Manitoba Justice Minister Heather Stefanson said in a statement that her government wants more clarity on how the Canadian government intends to support provinces in implementing The Cannabis Act. Stefanson stressed the importance of developing proper policy to address road safety and enforcement, regardless of the regulatory regime. "Our primary concern regarding the legalization of marijuana is the health and safety of Manitobans," she said. "The federal government must recognize that rushing into something of this magnitude presents tremendous risks." The federal government plans to legalize recreational marijuana by July 2018. (Matilde Campodonico/Associated Press) Ontario Justice Minister Yasir Naqvi described the deadline as tight but added that his province is working diligently to be ready by July 1, 2018. Ontario became the first province to make public its plans for legalized cannabis last week, unveiling the outline of a regulatory system that restricts sales to stores operated by its own liquor board. "The timeline is fast approaching and we have not been wasting our time, fully recognizing that a lot of work has to be done," Naqvi said. He added that Ontario developed its plan following extensive consultations and that other provinces and territories will have to find their own way. A hands-off approach The federal government has come under fire for what appears to be a hands-off approach to regulating the sale and policing of marijuana, once it becomes legal. Brian Patterson, head of the public safety group Ontario Safety League, said he is shocked by the federal government's commitment to an unrealistic deadline that is politically motivated and will put Canadians at risk. The group released a position paper earlier this month titled Too Far, Too Fast, urging the government to slow down and consult more extensively with police forces, health agencies and provincial governments. "Before you open the pool, you better check the chlorine levels and know what's going on. And we're just opening the pools, because it's Canada Day," Patterson said. "Spitballing in the dark seems to be the method being used to stick to that date." Critics worry about the impact legalization will have on youth. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press) Protecting young people Patterson also criticized the absence of scientific evidence to back some of the federal government's positions, such as allowing 18 year olds to smoke when health professionals have said exposure to marijuana can negatively impact developing brains in people as old as 25. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said repeatedly it is important to act quickly to get marijuana out of the hands of youth, who he says have easier access to weed than beer. Youth health experts urged a House of Commons health committee earlier this week to develop extensive prevention and public-education campaigns focusing on the harmful effects of marijuana, warning stronger regulations alone will be ineffective in deterring kids from smoking pot. Representatives from several law enforcement agencies warned the federal government there was zero chance police would be ready in time to enforce new laws for legalized pot. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Former B.C. health minister joins burgeoning medical marijuana industry Legal marijuana could be lifeline for B.C. towns hit by industry losses Researchers seek 1,000 Vancouver pot shop users for survey Fertile territory: legal marijuana production blooms on Vancouver Island Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now