Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Province aims to break even on pot sales, holds off on revenue projection The province is calling this year a "a trial year" for pot revenues, opting not to project revenues or expenditures in anticipation of the legalization of marijuana. Social Sharing Too difficult to predict how much marijuana will be sold when legalized CBC News · Posted: Mar 15, 2018 9:00 AM CT | Last Updated: March 15, 2018 A budtender displays cannabis for sale at a dispensary. (CBC) The province is calling this year a "a trial year" for pot revenues, opting not to project revenues or expenditures in anticipation of the legalization of marijuana. "We're not looking at it as a revenue stream for the province," Justice Minister Don Morgan told reporters Wednesday following the release of details on the province's cannabis legalization framework. "We're looking at it as a cost-recovery." 19 is legal age for pot in Saskatchewan Currently, there are too many unknowns with enforcement and operation costs, while it's difficult to predict the volumes that would be sold, he said.  "So this year is somewhat of a trial year and we'll watch as it goes forward." Legal cannabis will cost Regina police more than $1M a year, report says Pot money won't be considered in upcoming provincial budget, Moe says During question period, Sask. NDP justice critic Nicole Sarauer charged that the government was being "far from transparent" about how they would spend money received from the sale of cannabis, and that municipal and band leaders would be the ones bearing the costs of legalization. Saskatchewan Justice Minister Don Morgan says there are too many unknowns to project revenues for the province, following the legalization of pot. (Craig Edwards) But, University of Regina economics professor Jason Childs acknowledged there is a lot of uncertainty in how things will roll out, particularly in anticipating how big the pot market might be. "It's this big question mark. How do you budget for that level of uncertainty?" he said. Childs points out other unknowns include the price point for pot, and seeing if– and how legal sales may divert money from the black market. There is a real risk that pot could cost provinces more than they make, depending on how they regulate the industry, he said. However, he doesn't believe that would be the case in Saskatchewan, pointing out the province is allowing the private sector to operate cannabis sales. "They're the ones that are carrying the risk and the financial cost." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now