Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Quebec municipalities vying for one third of pot tax revenues Not one gram of legal cannabis has yet been sold in Quebec, but municipalities in the province are already clamouring for their share of tax revenues from its sale. Social Sharing Municipalities union argues that expenses like police training mean they merit a share of the pot sales CBC News · Posted: Dec 02, 2017 2:30 PM ET | Last Updated: December 2, 2017 Once pot is legal the Quebec government is vying for more than half of the tax revenues promised by Ottawa. Municipalities want one third. (CBC) Not one gram of legal cannabis has yet been sold in Quebec, but municipalities in the province are already clamouring for their share of tax revenues from its sale.   Once pot is legal, as of July 2018, the Quebec government wants more than one half of the tax revenues generated by the sale of cannabis. Quebec municipalities want one third. Legalization will entail additional costs for municipalities, according to Alexandre Cusson, the new president of Quebec's union of municipalities (UMQ). Given that, he said, they should receive a proportional share of the proceeds.  Is Quebec missing out on the marijuana boom? "We think the adequate and equitable share would be one that gives a third of cannabis tax revenues to each level of government — federal, provincial and municipal," Cusson said Friday at a UMQ board meeting in Montreal. Police training, which could cost up to $10,000 per trained police officer according to Cusson, is just one of the costs related to pot legalization for municipalities. Quebec government reveals details of marijuana bill Legalization will also entail additional costs for urban planning, municipal courts and land use, he said. For Montreal Mayor Valérie Plante, law enforcement's preparedness is key. "We need to make sure the police, the SPVM (Montreal police), among others, are able to manage the impacts [of cannabis legalization]," Plante said. Leases affected by pot legalization, UMQ says Municipal housing regulations may also have to be adapted to deal with legalization, said Cusson, who is also the mayor of Drummondville. He gave an example: if cannabis were used in social housing where children were present, parents could be unhappy at having their children exposed to the substance. They may not be able to move elsewhere due to lack of funds. 'We're absolutely not ready': Quebec's pot bill concerns Indigenous communities "There are leases that have already been signed, and those leases do not refer to cannabis," he said. It's unclear if it will be possible to reopen these leases, or if the provincial and federal laws that will be adopted will cover these types of situations. These topics will be on the agenda on Tuesday, when the UMQ will address the subject during a parliamentary committee hearing in Quebec City. First medical, then recreational: Montreal marijuana plant opens With files from Radio-Canada CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario, Quebec pot plans out of joint 'We're absolutely not ready': Quebec's pot bill concerns Indigenous communities Proposed marijuana rules don't address concerns of Kahnawake Mohawks Is Quebec missing out on the marijuana boom? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now