Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan RCMP wraps GTH land deal probe, but public faces unknown wait time for results The RCMP has confirmed its investigation into the GTH land deal has concluded. A spokesperson said police are now working with the Crown attorney's office in Manitoba. Social Sharing Police say they will inform the public of Global Transportation Hub investigation results when appropriate CBC News · Posted: Nov 30, 2017 1:41 PM CT | Last Updated: November 30, 2017 The RCMP confirms it has concluded its investigation into the GTH land deal and is now working with the Crown attorney's office in Manitoba. (CBC) Saskatchewan RCMP have confirmed their investigation into the Global Transportation Hub land deal has concluded. A spokesperson said police are now working on a review of the investigation with the Crown attorney's office in Manitoba.  "The RCMP has concluded its investigation into the land transactions related to the GTH and is currently consulting with the Crown on the file," the spokesperson told CBC. The investigation wrapped up in mid-November. Justice Minister Don Morgan said he heard of the development from media on Thursday. Saskatchewan Justice Minister Don Morgan said he learned about the end of the investigation from the media on Thursday. (CBC) He said the province wouldn't take any steps until after the results of the investigation are publicly released by the RCMP.  The investigation was launched in the spring of 2016 after CBC broke the story about a series of land transactions that saw two politically well-connected businessmen make millions on land that wound up in the hands of the government.  Businessmen made millions on Regina land that wound up in taxpayers' hands Sask. politicians call for review of puzzling land transactions uncovered in iTeam investigation The federal policing section in Saskatchewan was tasked with the investigation because of their expertise in financial crimes, the RCMP told CBC earlier this year. In early September, the force alerted the public that its investigation was coming to a close.  At that time, the premier's office said when the investigation wrapped up, the RCMP would hand the file over to the Saskatchewan Ministry of Justice. It would then be up to public prosecutions to review the file or decide to send it out of province to be reviewed.  The RCMP said it intends to update the public once decisions have been made. "We're not in a position to provide a timeline as to when that process might be completed but we will advise the public of the results when it is appropriate to do so," the spokesperson said.  NDP MLA and Global Transportation Hub critic Cathy Sproule says the public has been waiting long enough for the results of the RCMP's investigation into the land deal. (CBC) Cathy Sproule, the NDP's critic on the GTH file, said she's glad the investigation has come to a close. But she wants answers. "We've been waiting for more information on that investigation for quite some time," she said. "I think everyone in the province is anxious to hear the results of the investigation and whether charges will be laid." Confused about the GTH land deal? Here's a short explainer video Saskatchewan4 years ago 8:39In 2015, CBC Saskatchewan's iTeam started looking into a transaction between the Global Transportation Hub and a Regina developer. This video is a summary of what CBC has learned since then. 8:39 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories CBC Investigates 'I never thought that I would get cheated': Chinese woman refused refund from Dundurn megamall developer CBC Investigates Sask. government considered buying high-priced farmland near GTH from Regina developer — before he owned it RCMP investigation into GTH nearing completion Meeting unearths GTH's major financial woes RCMP has 'extensive' interview with Brad Wall on GTH land deal Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now