Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Recreational cannabis not expected to be a money-maker for NSLC Cannabis is expected to generate $87 million for the Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. when it become legal to sell later this year, but officials with the Crown corporation and provincial government don’t expect there to be any profit. Social Sharing NSLC officials, premier expect expenses to gobble up revenues for at least first year Michael Gorman, Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Mar 21, 2018 6:03 PM AT | Last Updated: March 21, 2018 Neither the provincial government or Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. expect legal sales of recreational cannabis to be a money-maker in the first year. (CBC) Cannabis is expected to generate $87 million for the Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. when it becomes legal to sell later this year, but officials with the Crown corporation and provincial government don't expect there to be any profit. "The margins that we're anticipating in the cannabis category are much slimmer than they are in beverage alcohol," NSLC senior vice-president and chief services officer Dave DiPersio said in an interview. Nova Scotia tables balanced budget, with $29.4M surplus relying heavily on cannabis sales Province admits 'gaps' in plan to sell cannabis through 9 NSLC outlets Information in the NSLC business plan released Tuesday shows that while net sales will go up when cannabis goes on sale, net income will be dragged down because of the associated costs. The budget for 2018-19 has income from operations at $233.6 million, down from the 2017-18 forecast of about $239 million. A need to compete with black market While cannabis will affect the bottom line, DiPersio said the growing sales of local alcohol also has an effect because it doesn't generate the same margins as larger brands. Part of the cannabis-related uncertainty is because the supplier community is new and not at full production capacity, so they don't yet have efficiencies, said DiPersio. While that's expected to improve, DiPersio said the other issue is the need to price cannabis competitively with the black market. Assuming sales become legal in July, the NSLC is budgeting to sell 12 million grams in 2018-19, a figure based on consultation with producers elsewhere and jurisdictions such as Colorado, where it's already legal. DiPersio said it's too soon to know if it will become a legitimate revenue stream for the NSLC. "It really depends on where the costing lands from our vendor community," he said. "It's probably going to take a few years until that's fully understood." Aside from purchasing the product and renovating stores to sell it, DiPersio said other major costs will be related to hiring more people and to the supply chain. The NSLC doesn't have space in its existing distribution site and is looking for somewhere to warehouse cannabis. DiPersio said it's still discussing what to do about a location. Premier Stephen McNeil says the province won't detail the full costs related to legalized recreational cannabis until it finishes negotiating with the federal government. (CBC) Meanwhile, the provincial government has also said it doesn't expect to make money, despite budgeting for almost $20 million in revenue related to HST and duties. While the government has only acknowledged the addition of 2.4 full-time equivalent jobs in the 2018-19 budget related to legalized cannabis, Premier Stephen McNeil told reporters at Province House other costs will include advertising, more police and related equipment. But because the province is negotiating with Ottawa for help covering those costs, McNeil would not say how much is actually in the new provincial budget related to those issues, nor is it detailed anywhere in the document. "We have a very different opinion on the implementation [costs] of this product," he said. The province will be able to afford the added police, public awareness advertizing and other services related to legalization, but McNeil said he would keep the number secret until negotiations with the federal government are complete. "You don't walk in and say, 'Here's what I'm prepared to give you,' and then start a negotiation." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now