Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Referee sought to break 'impasse' in teacher contract talks with Sask. gov't The Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation is asking for an independent arbiter less than a year after its talks with the province began. Social Sharing Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation seeks independent arbiter 7 months after negotiations began CBC News · Posted: Jan 24, 2018 4:05 PM CT | Last Updated: January 24, 2018 Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation president Patrick Maze said the federation believes "a negotiated settlement is always preferable." (CBC) comments Less than a year into contract talks with the Saskatchewan government, teachers are seeking a referee to help push negotiations out of their current "impasse." The Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation (STF) announced its application to the Educational Relations Board for an arbiter on Wednesday. The group represents 13,500 teachers who have been without a new contract since last August. Sask. government faces opposition to wage cuts The move comes seven months after negotiations began and amidst disagreement over the province's request that teachers — along with other public-service workers — take a 3.5-per-cent wage cut. Decision to come in 10 days "We firmly believe a negotiated settlement is always preferable," said STF president Patrick Maze in a news release. "However, the other side continues to call for wage rollbacks and refuses to bargain on the full range of issues important to teachers." The federation says the board has 10 days to either grant the request or not. "We respect the arbitration process and will not compromise this process by commenting on the proposal we have provided to the STF during the collective bargaining process," the government said in an emailed statement.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories School boards want $54M in cuts reversed, education funding topped up Education cuts hurt son with autism, says Midale mom Education minister won't approve program cuts announced by Regina Public Schools Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now