Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Regina city committee votes to accept all 6 pot shop licences allocated by Sask. government Regina city council’s executive committee approved a report from city administration that lays out a framework for what the municipality needs to do to enforce the rules around legal marijuana. Social Sharing Mayor Michael Fougere says federal government rushing through legalizing marijuana CBC News · Posted: Feb 14, 2018 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: February 14, 2018 Recreational consumption of cannabis will become legal in Canada this year. A report to Regina city council lays out recommendations for new regulations and bylaws. (Evan Mitsui/CBCNews) Regina city councillors are set to allow six marijuana retailers into the city when pot becomes legal this summer. That's the maximum number allowed by the Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority for the province's capital city. The city council's executive committee approved a report from city administration Wednesday that lays out recommendations to prepare the city for marijuana legalization. One of those recommendations was that Regina accept the six licences. Legal cannabis will cost Regina police more than $1M a year, report says But city council isn't exactly welcoming legal marijuana with open arms. A few councillors said they were worried about keeping marijuana away from children and one, Bob Hawkins, said he was morally opposed to marijuana. Still, Mayor Michael Fougere said it's important for Regina to tackle the issue now. "This is an artificial rush by the federal government — there's no need for them to rush, there's no logical reason to rush — but they're doing that and they're forcing us and the province to act," he said. "So we have to act. In the interest of public safety, we have to have our programs in place." 'If we wait, we're not ready to move forward' With many regulatory questions still up in the air, like how much money the city will make from legal marijuana, this report lays out the city's needs in broad strokes. Another, more detailed report is expected to go before council once there's more information from the provincial government, Fougere said.  "The federal government has not given any indication; the provincial government certainly hasn't. If we wait, we're not ready to move forward," Fougere said. "Is it a perfect world? It's not. In a perfect world you would have the cost determined, the policy in place and then you approve it."  Regina Mayor Michael Fougere says there's been little financial forecasting from the federal and provincial governments before marijuana becomes legal this summer. (CBC News)The report lays out four other recommendations, including that: Administration develop regulations on zoning, business licences and community standards. City council pass a law banning smoking marijuana in indoor public places. Fougere formally ask the province to reimburse the city for all costs related to marijuana. It also lays out how legal marijuana will affect the police and fire departments as well as workers at City Hall. Cost of marijuana for city a 'moving target' The report states the police department expects legal marijuana to cost between $1.2 million and $1.8 million per year. On Wednesday, Regina Police Chief Evan Bray explained those figures represent between 1.6 per cent and 2.2 per cent of the police force's operating budget, which is in line with what police in York, Ont., and Edmonton expect to spend enforcing the rules when marijuana becomes legal.  SGI training more drug recognition experts, despite concerns testing is 'highly subjective' Regina police hand out warning letters to city's pot shops "It's a moving target for us," Bray said. "The costs of this are really tough to nail down."  Purchasing roadside testing equipment and training officers in recognizing high drivers is anticipated to be the most expensive part, Bray said. The testing machines are expected to cost at least $25,000 each and training is expected to cost at least $15,000 per year.  Before Wednesday's meeting, Coun. Andrew Stevens expressed concerns about the methodology behind the numbers. He questioned Bray about those numbers Wednesday and said he left the meeting satisfied with how the police reached their estimates.  Under a deal reached last year, 75 cents of every tax dollar from marijuana will go to the provinces, while the rest will go to the federal government. It's not clear how that money will flow to municipalities, but the report states Regina wants a third to cover the costs of legal marijuana.  The report will now go before the full Regina city council on Feb. 26.  Police Chief Evan Bray says he's concerned about the 19 marijuana dispensaries that currently operate in Regina. (CBC) Bray also said that right now marijuana-related offences take up an insignificant portion of police resources. Last year, 106 calls to police involved a simple possession offence. Police laid charges in just fewer than half of those cases, and all involved something other than marijuana.  But he said he's concerned about the 19 marijuana dispensaries that operate in Regina. He alleged one recently sold gummy bears laced with marijuana to an 11-year-old.  Over the last month, Regina police have been cracking down on marijuana dispensaries in the city. They issued a warning in the media and have been mailing letters to dispensary owners warning them they could be charged for marijuana trafficking.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Legal cannabis will cost Regina police more than $1M a year, report says SGI training more drug recognition experts, despite concerns testing is 'highly subjective' Regina police hand out warning letters to city's pot shops Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now