Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Regina police hand out warning letters to city's pot shops The Regina Police Service said it handed out warning letters to the city's marijuana dispensaries on Tuesday. Social Sharing Letters were delivered to dispensaries who did not cease operations after initial warning CBC News · Posted: Feb 07, 2018 8:09 AM CT | Last Updated: February 7, 2018 The warning letters Regina Police Chief Evan Bray mentioned back in January were handed out to the city's remaining pot shops on Tuesday. (Micki Cowan/CBC) comments The Regina Police Service handed out letters to the city's marijuana dispensaries on Tuesday, reminding them to "kindly govern yourself accordingly." Last month, RPS police chief Evan Bray issued warnings to the city's dispensaries notifying them charges could be laid now that the Saskatchewan government had outlined its marijuana regulations. "The law has not yet changed. There exists no legal way to purchase cannabis from a storefront or dispensary," Bray said in January. "It's illegal — and we don't have the luxury to arbitrarily enforce what law we're going to enforce and what law we're not." Pot shops may fear reporting thefts, robberies: former dispensary owner Pot policy group says Regina police being 'fairly decent' about Sask. dispensary crackdown Regina Police Chief Evan Bray 3 years ago 1:49The Regina police are getting cheers and jeers for saying there may be a crack down on the city's illegal pot dispensaries. 1:49 The letter warned dispensaries about possible charges related to trafficking, production and importing or exporting marijuana. Multiple shops had shut down to avoid a potential conviction hindering their chances at one of six permits which will be issued by the province to future dispensaries in Regina. "Today's activity would be the education to the owners and operators. At least, those that didn't heed the message on the 24th [of January]," the RPS said in an email on Tuesday. "We delivered letters to each dispensary today, informing them of the laws with respect to the distribution and sale of cannabis marijuana. Now they know." Marijuana is expected to be federally legalized this summer. The province has designated 60 permits to be distributed to 40 communities throughout Saskatchewan, based on population. Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content With files from Alex Johnson CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Saskatoon police follow Regina's lead in dealing with illegal pot dispensaries Regina police getting heat on social media for warning to marijuana storefronts Some Regina pot shops shutting down amidst warning of potential charges from police Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now