Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Regina police getting heat on social media for warning to marijuana storefronts The Regina police are getting cheers and jeers for saying there may be a crackdown on the city's illegal pot dispensaries. Social Sharing Chief Evan Bray said pot shops operating before federal legalization will face charges CBC News · Posted: Jan 25, 2018 9:47 AM CT | Last Updated: January 25, 2018 As of October 2017, there were at least 10 marijuana dispensaries operating out of storefronts in Regina. (Micki Cowan/CBC) comments The Regina Police Service (RPS) getting heat on social media after Chief Evan Bray said any marijuana storefronts operating in the city ahead of the federal legalization would face charges. Multiple pot shops have heeded the warning, Bray said, noting at least three of the storefronts in the city have voluntarily closed.  "It's illegal," Bray said Wednesday. "The law has not yet changed." Some citizens on social media were upset about the announcement, but the police also received some support.  Some Regina pot shops shutting down amidst warning of potential charges from police Regina police chief says expect 'headlines' as pot dispensaries face possible charges before legalization "Pathetic. This is nothing more than a plot for the RPS to be able to easily justify their budget for one more year. Get a few more 'drug busts' under your belt before it's not illegal anymore," said one comment from Colin Henkel on the RPS Facebook page.   "Disgraceful. Put my tax dollars towards solving real crimes, please." Chief Evan Bray said Multiple pot shops in Regina have heeded the warning, noting at least three of the storefronts in the city have voluntarily closed. 3 years ago 1:49The Regina police are getting cheers and jeers for saying there may be a crack down on the city's illegal pot dispensaries. 1:49 Lauren Birley pointed out that there are probably officers within the force who agree with legalization, but it's still up to them to enforce the current illegal trafficking of marijuana. "I find it crazy so many people seem to attack RPS personally in the comments," she wrote. "Also, quality control is very important. What if a dispensary was selling marijuana with cocaine or fentanyl in it? Yikes." One comment suggested police should focus on busting fentanyl and meth pushers rather than worry about marijuana storefronts, which some people may find helpful for pain treatment. Another suggested the police and Bray have "mixed priorities." Police Chief Evan Bray said the law is the law, and there is no gray area when it comes to enforcing laws. (Facebook) What an enormous waste of money if they pursue this course.&mdash;@kylasayswhat Prior to Bray's warning, there were at least 10 marijuana storefronts in the city. That's four more than the province wants, as it set out in regulations that would limit the amount of legal dispensaries in the city to six. The province is allowing for 60 permits throughout the province across 40 communities and the number of permits for each community depends on its population.  Marijuana is expected to be legalized this summer. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Enforcement coming to illegal marijuana dispensaries in Saskatoon, says new police chief SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says 'Keep it out of our schools': Legal age to smoke pot should be 22, school board association says Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now