Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Edmonton Research lacking on medical marijuana, new prescription guideline suggests A new medical marijuana guideline developed by Edmonton researchers warns physicians that the risks may outweigh the benefits for the vast majority of patients. Social Sharing 'While enthusiasm for medical marijuana is very strong … good quality research has not caught up' CBC News · Posted: Feb 15, 2018 12:00 PM MT | Last Updated: February 16, 2018 While researchers found limited evidence to support he use of medical marijuana, the side-effects of taking cannabinoids were common and consistent. (CBC News) A new medical marijuana guideline developed by Edmonton researchers warns physicians that the risks may outweigh the benefits for the vast majority of patients. The guideline, published Thursday in the Canadian Family Physician journal, suggests the benefits of medical cannabis may be overstated, and research on its medicinal properties is sorely lacking. Canadian doctors should think twice before prescribing the drug, said Mike Allan, who led the research team. "For most things we shouldn't be recommending it, because we don't have enough research to say if the benefits of the therapy outweigh the risks of the therapy," said Allan, director of evidence-based medicine at the University of Alberta. Ample evidence of harms, doctors' groups say The guideline was based on a review of clinical trials involving medical cannabis. The document will be distributed to 30,000 physicians across Canada, and is intended as a new protocol for doctors to use when deciding whether or not to prescribe marijuana. In general we're talking about one study, and often very poorly done.- Dr. Mike Allan Thousands of Canadians are already prescribed medical marijuana, and that number is expected to rise after marijuana is legalized this summer. Family doctors face increasing pressure from patients asking for medicinal pot. But the study authors suggest there is little data for physicians to rely on before making that decision. Alberta doctors prescribing marijuana jump 50% in 4 months Guideline authors found that, in most cases, the number of randomized studies involving medical cannabis was extremely small. In the rare instances where research did exist, the studies were narrow in scope or poorly executed, said Allan. He said mental health problems such as anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are the number two reason medical marijuana is prescribed, but research doesn't support its use for those patients. "In many areas, the research was actually absent or so limited that you really couldn't make a call," said Allan. "For example, there are no studies for the treatment of depression."  The guideline paper said there was also only one study on anxiety and it was unscientific. In that trial, half of the 24 patients involved received a single dose of cannabis derivative and scored their anxiety doing a simulated presentation. Proven treatments Louis Morin said he has been using medical marijuana for seven years to treat his idiopathic polyneuropathy. The condition is killing his nerve endings, causing burning pain in his extremities. "The pain level goes up to a 10, but normally it's about an eight. Medical marijuana will bring it down easily to a four," said Morin. The 64-year-old from St. Albert, Alta., was diagnosed with the condition 20 years ago. He said the first line of treatment with opioids such as morphine harmed his quality of life, so he eventually turned to medical marijuana. "I won't go near opioids now," said Morin. The guideline concludes there is adequate evidence for the use of medical cannabinoids to treat a handful of specific medical conditions, including nerve pain, palliative cancer pain, muscle tightness associated with multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury, and nausea from chemotherapy. Even in those specific cases, the benefits were found to be generally minor, said Allan. Albertans among Canada's biggest users of medicinal marijuana, Health Canada says "From the medical community we would argue (that) until we have research, we should hold back on prescribing," Allan said. "Particularly in any areas except the people who have failed all other kinds of therapies." "Given the inconsistent nature of medical marijuana dosing and possible risks of smoking, we also recommend that pharmaceutical cannabinoids be tried first before smoked medical marijuana." While the researchers found limited evidence supporting the use of medical cannabinoids, the side-effects were common and consistent. Common side effects included sedation, dizziness and confusion. 'Better research is definitely needed' Allan acknowledged the guideline may prove controversial, since the debate over medical marijuana is divisive.   "This guideline may be unsatisfactory for some, particularly those with polarized views regarding medical cannabinoids," Allan said. "Better research is definitely needed — randomized control trials that follow a large number of patients for longer periods of time. If we had that, it could change how we approach this issue and help guide our recommendations." The research was overseen by a committee of 10 medical professionals, including doctors, pharmacists, nurses and patients, and was peer-reviewed by 40 others. Medical colleges have released some general guidelines for primary-care providers and have cautioned physicians against prescribing marijuana. A trio of advisories prepared by the Alberta College of Family Physicians in 2017 summarized the scientific literature, or lack thereof, that dealt with medicinal marijuana. Documents released by the colleges of physicians and surgeons in both British Columbia and Alberta cite the absence of reliable evidence to demonstrate the effectiveness of cannabis as medication. Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content With files from Tanara McLean CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Why the cannabis tax will only be one small part of government windfall: Don Pittis Aurora Cannabis buys stake in Edmonton liquor store chain to launch marijuana retail shops Brownies and beer: How edible cannabis businesses plan to cash in on legalization the current Convicted pot offenders need special access to the legal weed market: sociologist Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now