Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News New Brunswick Saint John to consider bylaw change to allow marijuana production Three years after Moncton and Fredericton, Saint John is considering a change to its zoning bylaw to permit medical marijuana production plants. Social Sharing Production of medical marijuana may be allowed in medium and heavy industry zones Connell Smith · CBC News · Posted: Apr 03, 2017 8:00 AM AT | Last Updated: April 3, 2017 If bylaw changes are approved in Saint John, medical marijuana production will be permitted in medium and heavy industry zones. (CBC) Three years after Moncton and Fredericton made the move, Saint John is now considering a change to its zoning bylaw to permit medical marijuana production. And while the city has been slow getting into the game, an industry analyst says it may not be too late to attract industry players. So if you're not in the game this year, you're probably going to be a niche player.- Jason Zandberg , analyst with PI Financial "We expect about 20 to 30 more licences to be added in the next two years," said Jason Zandberg, special situations analyst with PI Financial in Vancouver. "There's still a shortfall of about 200,000 kilograms of capacity that needs to be built." There's plenty of interest, however, in getting one of those licences. Some 2,200 companies have applied for permits from Heath Canada, and 41 have been approved so far. "So if you're not in the game this year, you're probably going to be a niche player," said Zandberg. http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/new-brunswick/marijuana-growing-jobs-1.4039114  Zenabis gets $4M loan to help build medical marijuana facility Getting into the marijuana businesses is a time-consuming process, as Kent Hovey-Smith of Tidal Health Solutions in St. Stephen discovered. Tidal Health hopes to have approval to produce and sell cannabis later this year. "The process with Health Canada is a long one," Hovey-Smith recently told CBC News. "I think ours was just over two years.  "It took a long time but that's fine. They're being strict about their regulations and that's the way we want the industry to be governed." Industry analyst Jason Zandberg expects Health Canada will issue 20 to 30 more licences to marijuana producers over the next two years. (pifinancialcorp.com)The City of Saint John's planning department is proposing a zoning bylaw amendment to allow "medical marijuana production facilities" as a permitted use in medium and heavy industrial zones. The matter will be considered by city council at its meeting Monday night. Like Tidal Health, Zenabis in Atholville also awaits a green light from Health Canada. Organigram in Moncton started shipping medical marijuana to producers in early 2015. While 2017 may be make or break for companies hoping to be major players in the industry, Zandberg believes there will be room for specialty producers in coming years. He likened the future recreational marijuana market to the beer industry, where 75 to 80 percent of the 520 companies operating in Canada are now small craft brewers. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Help wanted: marijuana company hiring in St. Stephen OrganiGram tightens medical marijuana production after 2016 recall Zenabis gets $4M loan to help build medical marijuana facility Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now