Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Sask. Teachers' Federation asks members to vote in Sask. Party, NDP leadership elections Saskatchewan's teachers are being asked to get involved in choosing the new leader of the province's two main political parties in hopes of making education a priority for candidates. Social Sharing President Patrick Maze hopes move will spur candidates to make education a priority David Shield · CBC News · Posted: Oct 31, 2017 10:01 AM CT | Last Updated: October 31, 2017 The Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation is asking its members to take out party memberships and get involved in the leadership elections for the Saskatchewan Party and the NDP. (CBC News) Saskatchewan's teachers are being asked to get involved in choosing the new leaders of the province's two main political parties. On Tuesday, the Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation (STF) sent out a news release encouraging teachers to take out party memberships and vote in upcoming elections for the Sask. Party and the NDP leadership. "We think that sitting on the sidelines and trying to advocate for education simply hasn't been working," said STF president Patrick Maze. "We know that our classrooms have been suffering and our students need support." Sask. Opposition accuses government of cutting teachers despite growing enrolment 'There will be cuts in the classroom' due to budget, says Sask. Teachers' Federation On Monday, the Opposition NDP accused the provincial government of cutting back on the number of  teachers across the province. According to numbers from the Teachers' Federation, there are 181 fewer teachers in classrooms this year despite preliminary enrolment figures which show a rise in enrolment of 4,500 students. Education Minister Bronwyn Eyre disputes those numbers, stating that the STF is including administrative positions in that figure. "I think the cuts to education indicate that education is not a priority with the current government," said Maze. "We want to make sure that whoever becomes premier knows that education needs to be a priority." Maze said this is the first time the federation has asked its members to buy party memberships and become involved in leadership contests. Don't sit on your couch watching TV in the evening. Get involved in the process.- Teachers' Federation President Patrick Maze He said the STF has no intention of backing any candidate or leader at any point in the campaigns. However, Maze said he feels this is the best way to make education a priority in both parties' campaigns. "We know that some members will not physically be able to take out a membership in one party or the other because of their own values," he said. "What we're saying is, don't sit on your couch watching TV in the evening. Get involved in the process." The federation has reached out to all leadership candidates, asking for their education platforms. The STF plans on posting that information on its website. The Saskatchewan Party's leadership convention will be held Jan. 27. The Saskatchewan NDP will hold its leadership convention March 3. About the Author David Shield David Shield is a web writer for CBC Saskatoon. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Opposition accuses Sask. government of cutting teachers despite growing enrolment Sask. teacher group driving anti-racism effort with conference in Saskatoon Sask. Teachers' Federation returns to bargaining table after board appointments Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now