Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. justice minister has 'real concerns' about marijuana legislation Saskatchewan's justice minister says the provincial government has some 'real concerns' about new legislation to be introduced today in Ottawa to legalize marijuana. Social Sharing Gord Wyant says it's easier to spot impairment from booze Stefani Langenegger · CBC News · Posted: Apr 13, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: April 13, 2017 Saskatchewan's Justice Minister, Gord Wyant, says he is concerned about who will pay to train police officers to detect impairment from marijuana. (Trent Peppler/CBC) Saskatchewan's justice minister says the provincial government has some "real concerns" about new legislation to be introduced today in Ottawa to legalize marijuana.  "We don't really have a way of monitoring or at least of detecting people who are driving on the roads who may be impaired by marijuana," said Gord Wyant. It could be legal to carry up to 30 grams of marijuana under bill to be tabled Thursday "There's people that are out there operating heavy machinery and we need to make sure that our workplaces are safe." Wyant says the consumption of alcohol is a "bit more obvious" than that of pot, which may make it hard to detect the latter in the workplace. "You can smell alcohol on someone's breath," Wyant said. He said the province's construction association has already expressed its concerns to government about the issue. Wyant said he has written to the federal government to find out who will bear the cost of extra training for police officers to detect impairment due to marijuana in drivers. In the letter, Wyant also urges his federal counterpart to increase the minimum age for cannabis use to 19 from 18 across the country.  The legal drinking age in Saskatchewan is 19 and Wyant says to create a different age for cannabis, "especially in the context that our medical experts tell us young adult brains continue to develop until at least age 25, would be counterproductive." Marijuana is expected to be legal by Canada Day next year.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories It could be legal to carry up to 30 grams of marijuana under bill to be tabled Thursday Exclusive Liberals to announce marijuana will be legal by July 1, 2018 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now