Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. Catholic school boards looking to fund appeal of Theodore decision The province's eight Catholic school boards are looking to raise $300,000 to fund an appeal to the Theodore decision, which ruled Sask. cannot fund non-Catholic students to attend Catholic schools. Social Sharing All 8 Catholic school boards are committed to funding the appeal Creeden Martell · CBC News · Posted: Nov 17, 2017 10:20 AM CT | Last Updated: November 17, 2017 Saskatchewan's Catholic school boards are looking to raise $300,000 to fund an appeal of a decision which rules the province cannot fund non-Catholic students to attend Catholic schools. (CBC) comments All eight of Saskatchewan's Catholic school boards are looking to raise funds for an appeal against a Court of Queen's Bench decision earlier this year which ruled the province cannot fund non-Catholic students to attend Catholic schools.  Together, the province's Catholic school boards are looking to raise $300,000, according to Tom Fortosky, executive director of the Saskatchewan Catholic School Boards Association.  Fortosky said there had been $19,354 raised for a challenge prior to the official fundraising campaign by the school boards. The remaining $280,000 would be divided up among the eight Catholic school boards at the rate of $7 per student. There are about 40,000 students within the province's Catholic schools.  Court ruling bars Sask. gov't from funding non-Catholic students in Catholic schools Sask. government invokes notwithstanding clause over Catholic school ruling "We feel budgets are already tight and school divisions, students and teachers are in a situation where taking money to fund this [out of operating budgets] would hurt the classrooms," said Rob Bresciani, chair of Regina Catholic Schools. "So, we decided we wanted to take this to the public and try to fund it through a fundraising effort."  Regina Catholic Schools currently has about 11,800 students enrolled within the city's Catholic schools. They're looking to raise about $70,000 for the fund, a spokesperson said. The Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools said in a statement on its website that the school board would raise its share of $140,000. "What we've done is basically portioned out the dollars," said Diane Boyko, chair of GSCS. "We intend to hear with the appeal that [the decision] would be overturned." Province invokes clause In April, Justice Donald Layh ruled that funding "non-minority faith students" to attend Catholic schools was a violation of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the province's duty to practice religious neutrality. The decision would take affect in June 2018. The decision was appealed by both the province and the SCSBA.  The decision stems from the Good Spirit School Division filing a lawsuit against the Christ the Teacher Roman Catholic Separate School Division, after a Catholic school opened in Theodore, Sask. in 2003.  The GSSD argued that the constitutional protection of Catholic schools does not include the right for those schools to receive government funding for non–Catholic students. Earlier this month, the provincial government invoked the Charter's notwithstanding clause with allows the province to create laws that will operate in spite of (or "notwithstanding") some charter rights that the laws appear to violate. "It takes away the right of the parent to choose the education that they feel is best for their child," Bresciani said. "The parent is the first line of education and their right to choose — [the decision] would take that away." The province estimated as many as 10,000 students would be taken out of the separate school system and placed into the public system if the decision is upheld. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Saskatchewan government appealing ruling on Catholic school funding Opinion Why Brad Wall invoked notwithstanding clause to trump court ruling on Catholic education Saskatchewan parents group calls for 1 secular school system Regina woman says her family would consider converting to Catholicism if funding ruling stands External Links SCSBA Theodore Court Case Appeal Fund Raising Campaign Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now