Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. NDP leadership race lacks new faces, diversity, prof says Tom McIntosh heads the politics department at the University of Regina and said so far, the lack of candidates besides two that have run before points to problems with the health of the party. Social Sharing 'The irony is that the Sask. Party could find two women to run and the NDP can’t seem to find one' Stephanie Taylor · CBC News · Posted: Oct 30, 2017 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: October 30, 2017 Ryan Meili (left) and Trent Wotherspoon (right) are the two men battling for leadership of the Saskatchewan NDP. (CBC News) A political scientist in Regina calls it "disappointing" that so far, only two "middle-aged white guys" are running to lead the Saskatchewan NDP and this is neither's first time. Tom McIntosh heads the department of politics at the University of Regina. He said the fact Trent Wotherspoon, MLA for Regina-Rosement, and Ryan Meili, MLA for Saskatoon-Meewasin, are the only contenders for NDP leader is ironic considering the public outcry from the Saskatchewan Party's spring budget and subsequent series of reversals, which has weakened the party in power's image. 'It's hard to agree this much:' NDP leader hopefuls face off in 1st debate "In spite of all of that, the fact that the NDP could only attract or so far has only be able to attract two candidates, both sort of, you know, middle-aged white guys, is a little disappointing," McIntosh explained Sunday. "One would presume that the challenges facing the government — most of which are of the government's own making — would give a bit of a boost to the NDP and would make leading the NDP a more attractive prospect, but that hasn't happened so far." Tom McIntosh heads the department of politics at the University of Regina. (CBC News) Wotherspoon and Meili both had their names on the ballot the last time the New Democrats elected a leader in 2013 when Cam Broten became leader. This race will be Meili's third bid to become leader after also losing to Dwain Lingenfelter in 2009. Trent Wotherspoon announces run for Sask. NDP leadership Ryan Meili seeks NDP leader for 3rd time Candidates have until Jan. 12, 2018 to enter the race, which McIntosh hopes more do, even from outside the caucus.  "This is a really open leadership and yet there just doesn't seem to be people," he said. "You don't even hear names." Lack of diversity Besides the lack of new faces, McIntosh also lamented the lack of gender or racial diversity in the race. "The irony is that the Sask. Party could find the two women to run and the NDP can't seem to find one," he said.  Race to lead Sask. NDP will not include any female MLAs "That's a bit of a problem. That should be a glaring issue for the party." Front-runner will appear after January McIntosh said it's too early to say who the front-runner is, with Wotherspoon appealing more to the party establishment, while Meili is poised to gain traction with activist, younger New Democrats.  He said for members, it will become clearer who their favourite candidate is once the governing Sask. Party elects its new leader on Jan. 27, 2018 — a race McIntosh believes is overshadowing the Sask. NDP's.  "You sometimes almost have to remind yourself that it's going on." No matter the outcome of the race, McIntosh said the NDP needs to attract new members and reconnect with moderate voters in rural and small town Saskatchewan, a group he said may be leaning away from the Sask. Party.  About the Author Stephanie Taylor Reporter, CBC Saskatchewan Stephanie Taylor is a reporter based in Saskatchewan. Before joining CBC News in Regina, she covered municipal politics in her hometown of Winnipeg and in Halifax. Reach her at stephanie.taylor@cbc.ca @__stephanietaylor CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask.'s Bill 40, budget reversals confuses economic planning: prof Sask. NDP to elect a new leader on March 3, 2018 'It's hard to agree this much:' NDP leader hopefuls face off in 1st debate Race to lead Sask. NDP will not include any female MLAs Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now