Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. Party to elect new leader in January 2018 The Sask. Party will elect a new leader Jan.27,2018. Social Sharing The convention will be held in Saskatoon CBC News · Posted: Aug 19, 2017 3:20 PM CT | Last Updated: August 19, 2017 Premier Brad Wall, who announced his retirement from politics on Aug. 10, 2017, is not picking favourites but says he's expecting a competitive race for Saskatchewan Party leader. (CBC) The Sask. Party will elect a new leader in Saskatoon on Jan. 27, 2018.  Details of the leadership convention were announced in a news release issued by the party on Saturday. It says party members will elect a new leader through a one member, one vote system.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall retiring from poltics As of Saturday, only two people had thrown their hats into the leadership race: social services minister Tina Beaudry-Mellor and economy minister Jeremy Harrison.  Candidates have until Nov. 24 to file their nomination papers. They will also be required to pay a $25,000 fee. The deadline for membership sales for those wanting to vote will be Dec. 8. Candidates will also have a $250,000 campaign expense limit and will be required to disclose the names of contributors who donate $250 or more.  The need for the party to elect a new leader came last week when Premier Brad Wall announced he was retiring from politics, but would stay on until his successor is elected. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. Party to lay down leadership race rules within 30 days Portrait of the premier as a young man: Brad Wall and friends remember political beginnings Tina Beaudry-Mellor announces Sask. Party leadership bid Sask. finance minister says budget update needed before leadership decision Meadow Lake MLA Jeremy Harrison announces Sask. Party leadership run PODCAST The Pollcast: Saskatchewan's shifting political landscape Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now