Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. finance minister not sure if budget will come out on time The budget was originally supposed to come out in March. Social Sharing Budget was originally supposed to come in March CBC News · Posted: Feb 04, 2018 8:41 PM CT | Last Updated: February 5, 2018 Finance Minister Donna Harpauer says the budget may not come out in March, as was previously expected. (CBC) Saskatchewan's finance minister says that due to the recent leadership race, the budget may not come out as planned. The government had originally hoped for a March release. "We're not sure if it can be on time but we don't want it to be too delayed," finance minister Donna Harpauer told reporters Friday. Labour relations 'minefield' awaits Scott Moe as Sask. premier Harpauer said they had anticipated the potential hiccups the leadership race could cause, so they made room in the budget plans for that. She said they had to keep in mind that each potential leader has different promises.   "We've built a budget with flexibility in it and now we can do some final numbers and get it before our new premier," she said. 'A very difficult decision': Premier Scott Moe unveils new cabinet Gord Wyant welcomed as new education minister, promises 'new relationship' with Sask. teachers Acknowledging Premier Scott Moe made specific financial commitments during his leadership campaign, Harpauer said they would "ensure" the budget would be able to honour those commitments. Budget talks start in September, with different ministries and ministers bringing forward their concerns, constraints and requests. NDP reaction Interim NDP leader Nicole Sarauer says it would be better if the budget wasn't delayed. "It's a very important budget. We need it to come out sooner rather than later. I know a lot of sectors are waiting to see what's going to happen and there's a lot of concerns about what's going to happen in the next budget," Sarauer told reporters Friday. Sask. government walks back cuts to grants-in-lieu for some municipalities Sarauer voiced concern for municipalities who will be left in the dark if the budget is delayed. "They don't know what that budget is going to mean for them, whether or not there's going to be further cuts. They don't know if they're going to have to go back to the decision-making table," she said.   "Based on what we heard, it's going to be another tough budget." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now