Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. educators look to Scott Moe to keep $30M campaign promise on education Saskatchewan teachers and school boards are looking to see whether premier-designate Scott Moe’s campaign promises translate into a new relationship between the provincial government and its teachers. Social Sharing Next premier made education key part of his campaign for Saskatchewan Party leader Alex Brockman · CBC News · Posted: Jan 30, 2018 6:49 PM CT | Last Updated: January 31, 2018 Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation president Patrick Maze has worked with Scott Moe before and expects him to keep his campaign promise on education. (CBC) comments Saskatchewan teachers and school boards are looking to see whether premier-designate Scott Moe's campaign promises translate into a new relationship between the provincial government and its teachers. Education was a key plank throughout Moe's leadership campaign, with a pledge for $30 million for 400 educational assistants. He repeated that promise during the Saskatchewan Party convention and again with reporters on Monday. School boards want $54M in cuts reversed, education funding topped up Brad Wall's senior advisor among 1st to switch roles  Scott Moe and his new cabinet to be sworn in this week It's not clear whether that funding would come before or within the budget that will be released this spring, but he said it would be there this year. "We're going to work really hard to get our campaign commitments into this budget, both financial and non-financial commitments as well," Moe said. That promise is part of the reason why Patrick Maze, the president of the Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation felt Moe was one of the two best candidates on education. Now that Moe will be premier, Maze is looking to him to keep it. "It's critical that the funding be restored immediately," he said. "We know that a number of support staff, while they're not front line teachers they're important to student learning and achievement."   The Saskatchewan Teachers' Federation called on its members to vote in the Saskatchewan Party leadership campaign, and influence the election of the party leader and next premier. The union did not track numbers on how many of its 13,500 members took out a Saskatchewan Party membership during the campaign, Maze said. He couldn't say how many teachers actually bought memberships and voted, but he said they affected the outcome. Newly-elected Saskatchewan Party leader and the next premier of Saskatchewan Scott Moe speaks during the Saskatchewan Party Leadership Convention in Saskatoon. He made education spending a key plank in his platform for party leader. (The Canadian Press/Liam Richards)"We believe we had thousands of members that took out memberships and voted. That forced candidates to pay attention to classrooms and students," Maze said. "We know teachers pushed the candidates and Scott Moe was one of the two that really responded."   The relationship between teachers and the provincial government has been strained in recent months after last year's budget called for a 3.5-per-cent wage cut for teachers and other public sector employees and slashed $54 million from education. Those cuts are partly to blame for stalled contract negotiations between the union and the province. Last week, Maze called for an independent arbiter to step in since the results had reached an impasse, but he says if Moe he's willing to go back to the table now that Moe is at the helm. 'No reason to doubt' $30M promise, says union leader Maze attended this weekend's convention and spoke with Moe after his victory. He says he expects the teachers' union to have a better relationship with Moe than what existed with former premier Brad Wall. "I have no reason to doubt that he's going to focus on education," he said. "Part of our excitement is we believe there will be a tighter connection with the premier himself on the education file." Maze wouldn't comment on whether current Education Minister Bronwyn Eyre — who faced calls for her resignation this past year — should be included in Moe's cabinet. Instead, he said he'd be willing to work with whomever has the portfolio. Referee sought to break 'impasse' in teacher contract talks with Sask. gov't ?'I will fight for this province': Scott Moe to replace Brad Wall as Sask. premier after tight race The president of Saskatchewan School Boards Association has a similar view on being able to mend fences with the government. "We're hoping to meet with Mr. Moe as board chairs in the next couple of weeks and have a dialogue on what we're looking for," Dr. Sean Davidson. "Building that rapport, that will be really positive." Davidson is encouraged by Moe's pledge of $30 million, but said that isn't enough to pay for increases school boards face, like hiring staff and paying for bus parts. "Thirty-million dollars is a good start, but it's likely not going to cover all the expenses and pressures school divisions are facing," Davidson said. "As Mr. Moe gets into the role we'll be able to outline what we need and how to handle those costs."       Moe is expected to be sworn-in as premier by the end of the week. About the Author Alex Brockman Alex Brockman is a CBC News reporter, radio newsreader and TV host based in Yellowknife. He's worked in the North since 2016, specializing on stories in the territory's small communities, territorial politics, and northern economies. Follow him on Twitter @BrockmanCBC. Have a story idea? Email him at alex.brockman@cbc.ca. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Referee sought to break 'impasse' in teacher contract talks with Sask. gov't Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now