Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Saskatchewan leans to private model for cannabis sales The province's justice minister says he doesn't want to see the government get into the pot business Social Sharing 'We don’t want to own it, market it or warehouse it,' says justice minister CBC News · Posted: Nov 17, 2017 6:00 AM CT | Last Updated: November 17, 2017 Smoke or vape? Which kind of pot to use? London Morning asked a marijuana grower and ER doctor. (CBC News) Saskatchewan's Justice Minister is learning towards a private distribution model when it comes to regulating the sale of cannabis in the province.  "I think the direction would be that we do not want to be in the ownership or marketing, we want to be a responsible ensuring that there's a regulatory scheme in place," Don Morgan said when asked about the distribution of cannabis on Thursday.  "We want to make sure it's a competent, well-run, regulatory scheme, but we don't want to own it, market it or warehouse it." 'A big economic impact:' Legalized cannabis could be $250M market in Sask., report says Morgan's response comes the same day a group of public policy experts released a report recommending pot be sold through a limited number of private retailers licensed and regulated by the province. Provinces and territories across Canada are coming up with plans on how to regulate the sale and distribution of cannabis once it's legalized in 2018. Municipalities worried Sask., is lagging on pot legalization  Ontario, for example, has released a plan for pot to be sold through its provincially-operated liquor stores. The Saskatchewan government has yet to table its own cannabis legislation. A spokesperson for the ministry says the province will release the findings from an online survey about cannabis by the end of the year.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Municipalities worried Sask. is lagging on pot legalization Sask. child advocate urges Ottawa to consider pot law changes to protect kids Most charges dropped in Saskatoon marijuana dispensary case 'A big economic impact': Legalized cannabis could be $250M market in Sask., report says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now