Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Sask. Party leadership candidate Gord Wyant wants public inquiry into Global Transportation Hub A candidate running for the leadership of the Saskatchewan Party wants to shed some more light on the Global Transportation Hub land transaction. Social Sharing Wyant vows to expand power of Conflict of Interest Commissioner CBC News · Posted: Sep 05, 2017 7:37 AM CT | Last Updated: September 5, 2017 Sask. Party leadership candidate Gord Wyant wants to see a public inquiry into the Global Transportation Hub. (Trent Peppler/CBC) A candidate running for the leadership of the Saskatchewan Party wants to shed some more light on the Global Transportation Hub land transaction. If elected as leader, Saskatoon Northwest MLA Gord Wyant wants to hold a public inquiry into the province's role in the multi-million dollar land deal. "I think it's important that we clear the air," Wyant told reporters Tuesday. "I think it's very important that the people of Saskatchewan get the answers that they deserve on this matter." Email shows Bill Boyd and premier's office were 'concocting a scheme' to pay too much for GTH land, NDP says Businessmen made millions on Regina land that wound up in taxpayers' hands A CBC News investigation found that two politically well-connected businesspeople made millions on a series of transactions that saw 200 acres of land wind up in the hands of the GTH for much more than the property was worth.  Former minister of the economy Bill Boyd was involved in directing some of those transactions. Wyant also said he wants to expand the province's conflict of interest act to make sure the province's Conflict of Interest Commissioner has the necessary tools to investigate issues like the GTH. "The chief commissioner of the inquiry would have all the subpoena rights," he said. "He'll have the right to compel witnesses, he'll have the right to compel testimony and documentation." NDP Opposition Leader Nicole Sarauer believes there is more information on the land deal currently known by Sask. Party MLAs and wants it released to the public. "They need to stop hiding behind leadership campaign promises, and finally come clean," she said. Red flag Last year, CBC News learned Wyant had red-flagged a potential conflict of interest in the first GTH land deal while he was minister of justice. Minister of justice red-flagged potential conflict of interest in 1st GTH land deal In 2012, the GTH agreed to pay a company called 139 Land Corporation $78,000 an acre, which was four times more than government appraisals said the land was worth. It wasn't clear who owned the company, and the company's lawyer wouldn't divulge that information, Eventually, the province didn't proceed with the transaction because it couldn't determine who the owners of the land were. The ongoing controversy now has to do with a later transaction, when the land sale was approved. Wyant did not have any issues with that land sale. More info Ultimately, as a cabinet minister, Wyant said he was happy with the information he received at the time during GTH discussions. Were he premier at the time of the land transactions, Wyant isn't sure he would have asked for Bill Boyd's resignation. "I think the information that I had at the time that these decisions were made was good information," he said. "Having the information that I had at the time, given the fact that processes and procedures that were in place at the time were followed, I don't think that gives rise to any request for the resignation of any minister." Before dropping his leadership bid last week, MLA Jeremy Harrison said he would get rid of the government's share in the Global Transportation Hub and revamp the province's conflict of interest legislation. Jeremy Harrison says gov't should sell stake in Global Transportation Hub, once defended it There are five candidates running for leadership of the party so far. The leadership election will be held Jan. 27, 2018. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories CBC Investigates Email shows Bill Boyd and premier's office were 'concocting a scheme' to pay too much for GTH land, NDP says Sask. conflict of interest commissioner won't look into Bill Boyd's role in GTH land deals Jeremy Harrison says gov't should sell stake in Global Transportation Hub, once defended it Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now