Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. doctors group wants legal age of 21 for purchasing pot A Saskatchewan doctors group wants the province to make 21 the legal age for buying recreational marijuana, saying it is concerned the impact to public health could be as extreme as that of cigarettes. Social Sharing Saskatchewan Medical Association says 21 is a compromise, 25 would be better Alicia Bridges · CBC News · Posted: Jan 23, 2018 5:38 PM CT | Last Updated: January 23, 2018 The Saskatchewan Medical Association says 21 is the right minimum age for people to purchase marijuana, because using it at a younger age can affect brain development. (Joe Mahoney/Canadian Press) A Saskatchewan doctors group wants the province to make 21 the legal age for buying recreational marijuana, saying it is concerned the impact to public health of legal pot could be as extreme as that of cigarettes. The Saskatchewan Medical Association, whose members are Saskatchewan physicians and medical students, announced its recommendation Tuesday morning. SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says "The effects that we saw when cigarette smoking first came — in the long-term detrimental health effects from cigarettes — was devastating to many people," said SMA president Joanne Sivertson. "We worry that marijuana will have similar impacts if it gets adopted to the rate that cigarette smoking was." Last province to set legal age  The Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Association will issue about 60 retail permits to private stores located in roughly 40 municipalities and First Nations across the province.  Sivertson said physicians have long been concerned about the harmful effects of marijuana on mental health, particularly for youth. Doctors highlight marijuana's health effects Health Canada to launch new campaign warning youth about risks of cannabis use "Evidence shows that prolonged use of marijuana in young people can have a negative effect on a developing brain, which develops into the mid-20s," said Sivertson. Saskatchewan will be the last province to set a minimum age for buying pot after legalization. Of the territories, only Nunavut has yet to announce its proposed legal age.  If the province was to adopt the SMA recommendation, it would have the highest legal age of all the provinces. How the provinces are planning for pot legalization The other provinces have all introduced legislation setting the legal age for pot use at either 18 or 19. Federal legislation suggests a legal age of 19. The Saskatchewan branches of the Canadian Cancer Society and the Lung Association also recommended purchases be limited to people 21 or older. 'The stakes can be very, very big': Saskatchewan's marijuana market getting serious First Nations in Saskatchewan question provincial jurisdiction over marijuana sales The Saskatchewan School Boards Association suggested a minimum age of 22. Sivertson said the SMA would rather see a legal age of at least 25 but 21 is a compromise. "We recognize that the black market may target our youth and uncontrolled substances carry more risk than controlled substances, so we thought that 21 was a reasonable compromise," she said. Waiting for new premier Alberta's provincial government went against the recommendation of its own health provider, Alberta Health Services, which called for a legal age of 21. The medical association for that province had also recommended that age. The Saskatchewan government said it will not announce the legal age for marijuana use until after a new premier to replace Brad Wall is elected Jan. 27. "Advice of the SMA and other stakeholders will certainly be considered in recommending and determining the legal age of consumption, but that decision will be made by the new premier and his or her cabinet," said the province in an emailed response. "The province is working on a number of aspects of the cannabis legalization framework and we anticipate [we will] have the necessary legislation and regulations in place in time for the July legalization date, as set out by the federal government." Saskatchewan is the only province that hasn't proposed a minimum age for the purchase of recreational marijuana. The federal government has indicated it wants to have recreational pot use legalized by this summer. (Chanss Lagaden/CBC News) According to Sivertson, the Saskatchewan Medical Association is still in the dark about how the province plans to educate the public about the health risks associated with marijuana use. She said the association has not been involved in those discussions, and the province has not shared its recommendation for the legal age with her group. Pot to the people: Sask. cannabis retailers pleased with provincial government's plan "I'm not sure that there has been much preparation at all from a provincial perspective but I'm not sitting at those tables, so I hesitate to criticize," said Sivertson.  She said the association has been holding educational sessions for doctors since the arrival of medical marijuana.   However, the SMA has not lobbied the provincial government directly for more resources. Instead, the Saskatchewan branch has allowed its umbrella organization — the Canadian Medical Association — to lobby for other changes such as additional research. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Doctors highlight marijuana's health effects Health Canada to launch new campaign warning youth about risks of cannabis use SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says Pot to the people: Sask. cannabis retailers pleased with provincial government's plan First Nations in Saskatchewan question provincial jurisdiction over marijuana sales Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now