Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Saskatchewan MLAs pay tribute to Premier Brad Wall on final day in legislature To mark his last day in the assembly, many MLAs paid tribute to Premier Brad Wall, who officially resigns as premier in January. Social Sharing Members honoured Wall as a servant for Saskatchewan CBC News · Posted: Dec 07, 2017 5:47 PM CT | Last Updated: December 7, 2017 Deputy premier Don Morgan, NDP interim leader Nicole Sarauer and Minister of Finance Donna Harpauer were among the MLAs who paid tribute to Premier Brad Wall on his final day in the assembly. (CBC News) A prankster, family man and a tireless advocate for Saskatchewan — that's how colleagues remembered Premier Brad Wall on his last day in the Saskatchewan Legislature. "Some of you will know that over the years I've played the occasional prank," deputy premier Don Morgan said Thursday. "But you should know that no matter what I would do, he would have to top it." To laughter from the rows of MLAs and those packed into the gallery, Morgan told stories of his and Wall's shenanigans, while tabling a motion calling for the House to pay tribute to Wall after 18 years in the assembly. 'Just Brad': Premier says goodbye to Saskatchewan Legislature Morgan told one story of when, after hanging a metre-long campaign poster of his own face in the premier's bathroom, he was accused of being disrespectful to his office — only to drive to a Tim Hortons weeks later and discover that poster on the passenger side of his car. "An elderly lady looked at the picture and said, 'Why don't you get your real face airbrushed like that picture?'" said Morgan. Tearfully, Minister of Environment Dustin Duncan recalled first meeting Wall while in university in 2001, when the future premier came to speak to the youth wing of the Saskatchewan Party. People think Premier Brad Wall stepping down for negative reasons, poll suggests Sask. Party to elect new leader in January 2018 Making Saskatchewan better Minister of Finance Donna Harpauer, who was among those elected with Wall in 1999, said he made her a better person and Saskatchewan a better province.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said Thursday he is ready to give up political life. (CBC News) From the Opposition benches, NDP interim leader Nicole Sarauer joined in the tribute to Wall. At one point, she joked that she didn't care much for politics back when Wall was elected as an MLA  in 1999, and she was 13, but said he's been able to effectively adapt as times changed during his years in office. She said that politics aside, his commitment and dedication to serving the province is worthy of gratitude.  Honoured as servant "Brad Wall is without question the most successful conservative premier in our province's history," said Sarauer, saying that after a decade in office and having to govern during an economic downturn, he's still ranked as Canada's most popular premier. Approval rating for Premier Brad Wall falls 6 points in Sask.: poll "So I think he'll understand and it's fair to say that for a number of reasons, there are many in our party who are not too sad to see the premier go on to other things." Wall will officially stay on as premier until the Saskatchewan Party elects its new leader on Jan. 27. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. Party to elect new leader in January 2018 People think Premier Brad Wall stepping down for negative reasons, poll suggests 'We won't be backing off,' Brad Wall says of Alberta government ultimatum over plate policy 'Just Brad': Premier says goodbye to Saskatchewan Legislature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now