Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. government launches cannabis survey as part of 'aggressive' legalization timeline: minister The government of Saskatchewan launched a survey on its website about cannabis use on Friday. Social Sharing Submissions for survey due by Oct. 6 CBC News · Posted: Sep 08, 2017 10:40 AM CT | Last Updated: September 8, 2017 The Saskatchewan government has launched an online cannabis survey as the province deals with questions around taxation, workplace health and safety, and impaired driving, says Justice Minister Don Morgan. (Tilray) If you are 18 years or older, the Saskatchewan government wants to know what you have to say about pot. The province launched a survey on its website Friday about cannabis use. The federal government has plans to legalize pot for recreational use by July 1, 2018, leaving it up to the provinces to regulate the sale and distribution of cannabis.  Newly appointed Justice Minister Don Morgan said Friday that on top of these issues, the province must deal with questions around taxation, workplace health and safety, and impaired driving. "We have a very aggressive timetable because the federal government wants to have the legislation in place for July of next year," he told reporters. Ontario unveils pot plan including online ordering, 150 stand-alone stores Ottawa sticks with July 2018 deadline to legalize pot despite provincial worries He said the review progress will be guided by four objectives: stopping the growth of the underground cannabis market, restricting minors access to pot, promoting road and workplace safety, and ensuring positive public health.  He asked that survey submissions be in by Oct. 6. A summary of the findings from the review would be released later, Morgan added.  The province says information gathered in the surveys will remain anonymous and be used to shape the rules for legalized marijuana. The topics in the survey include:   Age limits on cannabis sales.  Public consumption.  Taxation on cannabis sales.  Distribution and wholesaling.  Potential retail models, locations and rules.  Regulatory compliance.  The enforcement of the modified impaired driving laws. Morgan said no decisions have been made as to whether pot sales in Saskatchewan will be done through a government model, as Ontario announced Friday it is planning to do.  Morgan says he hopes the legal marijuana regime will be comparable across the country. <a href="https://t.co/I974Oi2GNR">pic.twitter.com/I974Oi2GNR</a>&mdash;@_chamilton "We haven't made any decision as to whether that would be something that would be a strong contender for consideration here. I suspect we would probably be looking at other options." However, Morgan said he hopes for consistency across the provinces when it comes marijuana legalization. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Brad Wall disagrees with mayors that pot tax revenue should go to cities Regina's police chief talks 'hidden' costs of marijuana legalization Pot possession charges way down in Sask. as it preps for legalization Where will you buy legal pot in Saskatchewan? Pricey pot could fuel black market trade: Regina police chief Ontario to create cannabis control board, open up storefronts External Links Saskatchewan's marijuana survey Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now