Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Saskatoon's St. Paul's Hospital defends faith-based health care The CEO and president of St. Paul's Hospital is defending Catholic-run hospitals after a call for the end of faith-based health care in the province. Social Sharing Comments come after opinion column called Catholic hospitals discriminatory CBC News · Posted: Nov 16, 2017 12:46 PM CT | Last Updated: November 16, 2017 Saskatoon's St. Paul's Hospital does not perform abortions or medically-assisted dying. (Peter Mills/CBC) The CEO and president of Saskatoon's St. Paul's Hospital is defending Catholic-run hospitals after a call for the end of faith-based health care in the province. On Tuesday, University of Regina professor Ailsa Watkinson wrote an opinion piece for CBC calling for faith-based health care in Saskatchewan to stop after the province's health regions are amalgamated in December. Watkinson argued it was discriminatory that Catholic hospitals refuse to perform procedures like medically-assisted dying and abortions. However, CEO Jean Morrison told CBC Radio's Saskatoon Morning it's practically unheard of for one hospital to offer every medical procedure available to the public. She said people are routinely transferred to other hospitals for specialty care. OpinionFaith-based health care should end with Sask.'s health region amalgamation Sask. ready as doctor-assisted dying becomes legal at midnight Doctors, officials tackle assisted dying challenges in rural Saskatchewan "What's on the table is that people get the service they need and want, and as compassionately as possible," said Morrison. While there is no maternal care offered at St. Paul's Hospital, the issue of medically-assisted dying becomes more complicated. St. Paul's is the only hospital with a palliative care unit in the Saskatoon Health Region. Ultimately, anyone in the palliative unit who requests a medically-assisted death would be transferred to another hospital via ambulance. However, critics argue transferring fragile patients can be difficult and painful for the patients.  "Medically, we transfer patients between hospitals every day," Morrison said. "We try to transfer them as compassionately and with the greatest comfort possible, and we have much experience in doing that, and will continue to do that in this situation." Watkinson's column also argued that faith-based health care providers ultimately discriminate against patients on the basis of sex or disability by refusing to perform health care procedures for all citizens. "All providers are grappling with this," said Morrison. "It's not just a Catholic issue. Not every service is available at every public facility." Q&AMedically assisted dying: What happens when religious and individual rights conflict? Waiting to die: Winnipeg man says faith-based hospital delayed access to assisted death Morrison said Catholic-run health care facilities have a long history of being accommodated by the health care system, and she doesn't see that changing any time soon. "In all jurisdictions across Canada, Catholic health providers operate under local agreements that assert our ability to abide by our faith, while providing the services that we're capable of providing that are in alignment with our Catholic tradition," she said. "There's precedent within the public health system." In an emailed statement, the Ministry of Health said funding for faith-based facilities "will not cease with the transition to a single health authority." Even though St. Paul's is more than 100 years old, Morrison said Catholic-run health care still fulfils an important role in the system.  "Catholic health care is grounded in meeting unmet needs and providing holistic, compassionate care to all people, no matter who they are," she said. "And no matter what happens, we go back to that grounding."  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Opinion Faith-based health care should end with Sask.'s health region amalgamation Q&A Medically assisted dying: What happens when religious and individual rights conflict? Doctors, officials tackle assisted dying challenges in rural Saskatchewan Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now