Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Saskatoon police chief says cops getting on-board with legalized pot Saskatoon police Chief Clive Weighill says officers are preparing for game-changing legislation in the spring that will legalize marijuana. Social Sharing 'There's no use fighting it all the way,' says Clive Weighill Dan Zakreski · CBC News · Posted: Dec 15, 2016 5:30 AM CT | Last Updated: December 15, 2016 Saskatoon police chief Clive Weighill says legalized marijuana could change the fabric of Canada. (CBC) Legalized pot is coming to Saskatoon and the city's police are getting onboard. Instead of fighting legalization, their focus is now shifting to how best to enforce the upcoming laws. A federal government task force announced Tuesday that legalized marijuana sales should be restricted to those 18 and older, and people should only be able to possess 30 grams at a time for themselves. Pot task force recommends legal cannabis sales be limited to users 18 and over "We know it's coming. We want to work with it," said police Chief Clive Weighill. "There's no use fighting it all the way: We'll just look like people who can't get with the program." Weighill said there seems to be broad agreement on key areas: Keep pot away from youth. There has to be some regulation around who can grow it, who can buy it and who can sell it. There has to be some help for the police on dealing with impaired drivers. The issue of driving while high is very real in Colorado and Washington, where marijuana is legal. American researchers are working to come up with roadside saliva tests that measure THC, the compound that gets a user high. How to test for marijuana impairment is one of the issues. (CBC)Weighill said one challenge is coming up with a legal limit for marijuana that shows when a person is impaired. Police pilot project will test drug-detection systems by asking drivers for their saliva Sask. impaired driving rate highest in country last year He also cautioned against believing that legalizing pot will get rid of the black market around the drug. "The cartels are in the business for making money and they'll find any way they can," he said. "We're already seeing in Washington and Colorado wherever the price point is for legalized marijuana, they're undercutting it and there's still lots of illegal activity happening with marijuana. So, there's still going to be work for the police on this; there may even be more work." Weighill said this particular piece of legislation "could really change the fabric of Canada": More people will be experimenting with the drug than ever before, simply because it's legal. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Pot task force recommends legal cannabis sales be limited to users 18 and over Police pilot project will test drug-detection systems by asking drivers for their saliva Don't hold your breath: fully legalized pot could still be years away Sask. doctor traded pot for stereo speakers, regulator alleges Police raid controversial pot dispensary in Whitewood, Sask. Owner of new medical marijuana shop in Regina wants to educate and heal Sask. probes driver safety amid marijuana legalization plans Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now