Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan·Point of View Sask. has more wiggle room to tax marijuana than rest of country, study says As the country prepares for the federal government's bill legalizing pot, Saskatchewan will have to determine how much it will tax the drug. Social Sharing Too much tax could hurt effort to regulate market and generate revenue Samanda Brace · CBC News · Posted: Apr 11, 2017 5:35 PM CT | Last Updated: April 11, 2017 By charging the existing sales tax rate on marijuana, both the federal and provincial government could generate $675 million, says Rosalie Wyonch. (Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press) As the country prepares for the federal government's bill legalizing pot, Saskatchewan will have to determine how much it will tax the drug. Liberals want to move up pot legalization to avoid Canada Day celebrations The federal government has said marijuana legalization is meant to take profits out of the hands of criminals, but if the price is set too high, the black market will continue to thrive, one policy analyst says. It has been left up to the provinces to set the price for pot. Regulation, control, quality key in marijuana legislation, Trudeau says during Saskatoon stop How high will the price of legal pot be? Rosalie Wyonch, a policy analyst with C.D. Howe Institute, took a look at how the federal and provincial government could tax legalized pot. She found that marijuana should not be be taxed beyond the current tax rates. "Simply by charging the existing sales tax at the current rate, and not adding any specific taxation to marijuana, both the federal and provincial government could generate $675 million," Wyonch said on CBC Radio's Afternoon Edition. Rosalie Wyonch is a policy analyst with C.D. Howe Institute who researched how much governments should tax legalized pot. (supplied) This would result in about 90 per cent of the market being regulated, she added. "If they try to tax it too heavily they are simply undermining their own efforts to regulate production and enforcing safety standards," said Wyonch. It will drive more people to get their supply from the black market and hurt the provincial government's chances of generating revenue through taxation, like it does with alcohol and cigarettes, she said. However, Saskatchewan will have more wiggle room to add tax than other parts of the country because illegal weed is currently priced higher than legal weed here. "Once you adjust for quality, a gram of illegal weed in Saskatchewan and Manitoba comes out to about $11.75 and a gram of legal weed is $10.20," said Wyonch. She said that the government has to be careful, though, before adding a tax to marijuana, because once the black market is faced with competition from registered legal suppliers, its sellers will lower prices. But, Wyonch said, once the black market is snuffed out, registered legal suppliers will be able to create economies of scale that will allow for their production costs to drop. And governments will stand to generate even more revenue from higher taxation. With files from CBC Radio's Afternoon Edition CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis How high will the price of legal pot be? Analysis Tax policy on legal pot sales must squeeze out criminal competition: Don Pittis Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now