Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. government invokes notwithstanding clause over Catholic school ruling The government of Saskatchewan will use the notwithstanding clause to defy a court order related to public funding of Catholic schools. Social Sharing Court ruling says province should not pay to send non-Catholic kids to separate schools CBC News · Posted: Nov 08, 2017 2:25 PM CT | Last Updated: November 8, 2017 The government says parents want the choice to send their children to either public or separate schools and invoking the notwithstanding clause will protect that ability. The government of Saskatchewan will use the notwithstanding clause to defy a court order related to public funding of Catholic schools. Invoking the clause is something the government has said it would do since the spring, shortly after a court ruled it was unconstitutional for the government to pay for non-Catholic students to attend separate schools. Sask. to use notwithstanding clause to override Catholic school ruling The government is appealing that decision. In the meantime, it introduced legislation on Wednesday afternoon to invoke the notwithstanding clause of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The notwithstanding clause allows provinces to create laws that will operate in spite of (or "notwithstanding") some charter rights that the laws appear to violate. FAQs: Notwithstanding clause This override power is temporary. That means nothing will change when it comes to the government paying for non-Catholic students to attend separate schools. The government has said that a recent ruling by the Court of Queen's Bench would force as many as 10,000 non-Catholic students out of separate schools into the public system. The government says to funnel thousands of kids to public schools would be disruptive and is not what parents want. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. to use notwithstanding clause to override Catholic school ruling 'Troubling overreaction': Sask. law prof. questions use of notwithstanding clause for Catholic school ruling Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now