Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. government walks back cuts to grants-in-lieu for some municipalities Nine communities, which were disproportionately affected by the cuts, will now have their losses capped at 30 per cent. Social Sharing Province has capped reduction to municipal revenue sharing at 30% CBC News · Posted: Mar 31, 2017 2:25 PM CT | Last Updated: March 31, 2017 Government Relations Minister Donna Harpauer says the government was clear that municipalities could expect cuts. (CBC Saskatchewan) The government of Saskatchewan has capped reductions to grants-in-lieu to municipalities so that some communities won't be as hard hit by the budget decision. In its latest budget, the provincial government decided to nix grants-in-lieu doled out to municipalities by SaskPower and SaskEnergy. On top of other revenue sharing losses, some communities were facing 40-plus per cent losses in funding from the government, or millions of dollars worth. Of Sask. cities, provincial budget hits Yorkton hardest Some cities losing half of provincial funding, says Sask. Urban Municipalities Association SUMA says provincial cuts will force Sask. towns, cities to hike taxes Was it an oversight? I'd say it was.- Government Relations Minister Donna  Harpauer On Friday, the government said it would maintain a portion of the grants-in-lieu for nine municipalities so that they would not experience a reduction of more than 30 per cent in revenue sharing — at least for this year. Yorkton. Moose Jaw. Humboldt. North Battleford. Estevan. Melville. Weyburn. Prince Albert. Melfort. Government Relations Minister Donna Harpauer said the decision came after the Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association and municipalities voiced their concern over how the cuts would adversely affect communities.  "Was it an oversight? I'd say it was," said Harpauer. 2 mayors unimpressed Regina and Saskatoon will still be on the hook to make up multimillion-dollar shortfalls in their budgets. They recently held emergency city council meetings to discuss how to address the shortfall. Regina city council directs administration to reopen 2017 municipal budget Saskatoon city council pursuing legal measures, other revenue following loss of provincial grants Saskatoon Mayor Charlie Clark said the provincial cap to grants-in-lieu is not going to help.  "It provides relief to nine out of the 109 communities that were affected by the grants-in-lieu reduction that has been put forward," said Clark. We want to see a change that is fair and equitable.- Regina Mayor Michael Fougere He added that the grants-in-lieu program is confusing and uneven, and needs to be replaced with a more sustainable, consistent plan moving forward. Clark said that any resolution should recognize that Crowns utilize services provided by the cities, towns and villages they operate in.  Regina Mayor Michael Fougere said he was disappointed with the minister's announcement, and the grants-in-lieu program should be scrapped completely. "It's unfair; it's not uniform; and it seems to be somewhat arbitrary," said Fougere.  "We want to see a change that is fair and equitable. If the province is going to ask us to share the load of their deficit, they have to be more fair and equitable." Fougere added that the lack of consultation or notice about the decision was problematic. He said this caused the city to break open its budget and reconsider it. Revenue sharing should be 'reflective' of provincial revenue: Premier But Harpauer said, "I think the message was translated by myself; it was translated by the premier time and time again that this was going to be a very difficult budget. We have said time and time again that everything is on the table." Cutting the grants was originally slated to save the province $36 million, but this current decision has reduced that to $32 million. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Meeting between Sask. ministers, mayors starts 'positive' conversation Saskatoon may have no legal grounds to challenge budget cuts, says prof Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now