Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Sask. massage therapists say unregulated profession putting public at risk People who use massage therapists are at risk because the province hasn't yet regulated the profession, says the executive director of the Massage Therapist Association of Saskatchewan. Social Sharing Association points to allegations of sexual assault against former therapist CBC News · Posted: Jul 25, 2017 1:15 PM CT | Last Updated: July 25, 2017 Lori Green, executive director of the Massage Therapist Association of Saskatchewan, says the province is putting people at risk. (CBC) People who use massage therapists are at risk because the province hasn't yet regulated the profession, says the executive director of the Massage Therapist Association of Saskatchewan. "For the past two years, the provincial government has had draft legislation ready to introduce that would regulate massage therapists in Saskatchewan, just as they are in many other provinces," said Lori Green. Appeal court upholds sexual assault conviction for Sask. massage therapist Green said the association expected the legislation to be introduced this fall.  But that hasn't happened because, as the Ministry of Health said in an emailed statement, "While we have seen some progress, stakeholders were unable to agree on certain key issues, particularly how to grandfather current practitioners into a new regulatory college." "Given that consensus has not been reached, it would be premature to introduce legislation at this time." Former therapist nets another charge Green spoke outside Saskatoon provincial court on Tuesday, where former massage therapist Mark Donlevy received yet another charge. He is now facing nine allegations of sexual assault, dating from when he operated a massage business from his home. 'You have no protection' massage association warns after masseur arrested 7 more sexual assault charges laid against Saskatoon massage therapist Police investigating 3 new sexual assault claims against Saskatoon massage therapist ?Donlevy pleaded not guilty. He has a preliminary hearing scheduled for January. Assoc. feels options to deal with misconduct limited The massage association has a code of ethics and standards and practices for its 800 members. But Green said there is no way to make sure all therapists meet the standard. "What happens here is we have no real teeth, we have no law or regulation behind us, so at best all we can do is remove somebody from our membership," she said. Green said she cannot understand why the province is not coming forward with the legislation. It already regulates other health-care professions, like chiropractors and physiotherapists. "Why wouldn't they want the same for massage therapists? Why wouldn't the government move forward and protect the public?" The Ministry of Health insists that the provincial government is still working on regulating massage therapists in Saskatchewan. MORE SASKATOON NEWS | Saskatoon needs to address 'people falling through the cracks' to tackle crime rate, says mayor ?MORE SASKATOON NEWS | 2 youth warned for mischief in Canada Day porta-potty toppling CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now