Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. gov't uses half of contingency fund to keep budget on track in 1st quarter Interim Opposition NDP leader Nicole Sarauer has denounced the Sask. government's first-quarter budget update as 'ridiculous' and 'unrealistic.' Social Sharing $82M in expense increases expected, which is double the rise in revenue Micki Cowan · CBC News · Posted: Aug 25, 2017 11:05 AM CT | Last Updated: August 25, 2017 The government has had to use up $165 million of its $300 million contingency fund, which was set aside for a three-year plan in March. (Radio-Canada) The Saskatchewan government says it's keeping its budget on track in the first quarter, but only after dipping into its contingency fund.  That led the Opposition NDP to slam the Saskatchewan Party's first quarter budget update as "ridiculous" and "unrealistic" after more than half of the contingency fund the province set up in March has been used. Nicole Sarauer, the NDP's interim leader, accused Brad Wall's government of not having a long-term financial plan.  "It doesn't take an accountant to realize that's not on track," Sarauer said Friday.  Interim Opposition leader Nicole Sarauer says it's 'ridiculous' for the government to say its budget is on track after using up more than half of its contingency fund. (Radio-Canada) In March, Finance Minister Kevin Doherty tabled his second consecutive deficit budget, projecting a $684.7-million deficit this fiscal year. The province set aside $300 million, intended as a safety net to keep the budget on track this fiscal year. In order to keep on track in the first quarter, the government will be reducing its built-in contingency fund by more than half.  Sask. finance minister says budget update needed before leadership decision Sask. deficit for last year triple what was predicted Extra expenses of $82 million in the first quarter are expected to be double the increases in revenue, sapping about $40 million from the contingency fund.  Meanwhile, negotiations over public sector wage cuts didn't go as quickly as planned, leading the government to take a further $125 million from the fund.  The contingency fund will then sit at about $135 million with three quarters to go.  Doherty said the government did not anticipate using as much of the contingency fund as it did.  Expenditures in agriculture were about $40 million more than expected, Doherty said, which he attributed to more acres being insured than initially forecast. "We have no reason to believe our forecast is off target, good or bad," Doherty said.   "The reason we built a contingency into this year's budget was to help address in-year pressures," he said in an earlier press release.  "We still have work to do to control government's overall costs, including savings we are working hard to achieve in total compensation expense." The government says there are also some positive economic indicators coming down the line. Growth in manufacturing, vehicle sales So far this year Saskatchewan is in the top three among Canadian provinces in growth in manufacturing sales, population and vehicle sales.  Also, Doherty said private sector forecasters have increased GDP growth forecasts to 2.1 per cent, up from an average of 1.7 per cent at budget time.  The province has seen more money from oil as well, with the province producing 16 million more barrels than forecast at budget time, he added. Potash prices have increased, as have Crown land sales. "Oil companies can make money at $50 [a barrel] oil. Therefore, they're taking up more leases of Crown land to have that production come," Doherty said. Oil was forecasted at $56.25 a barrel at budget time. The first quarter forecast is now $49.75 a barrel. The government said it's planning to return Saskatchewan's budget to balance in three years, by 2019-20. MORE SASKATCHEWAN NEWS | 2 dead after plane crash near Swift Current airport MORE SASKATCHEWAN NEWS | Prince Albert family picking up pieces after 'surreal' break and enter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. finance minister says budget update needed before leadership decision Sask. backtracks on plan to cut funding to community organizations Sask. tax changes hurting women, poor: CUPE Sask. government's credit rating downgraded by Standard and Poor's Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now