Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. deficit for last year triple what was predicted For 2016-17, the government is reporting a deficit of $1.2 billion. Social Sharing Finance minister says 'prolonged downturn in resource prices' partly to blame Adam Hunter · CBC News · Posted: Jul 21, 2017 4:25 PM CT | Last Updated: July 22, 2017 Saskatchewan Minister of Finance Kevin Doherty said he sees signs of economic recovery in the province. (CBC) It's the final word on what turned out to be a bad year for the province's finances. Last year ended with a deficit of $1.2 billion —three times the original deficit the Saskatchewan government had initially predicted. "The prolonged downturn in resource prices continued to impact revenue in 2016-17," Finance Minister Kevin Doherty said. "At the same time, a growing population put pressure on government services such as health care and social assistance." Crowns put $219M back into province's pocket, partial sale talks continue Doherty said he talked to experts to get predictions for the price of oil — and the advice was not very useful, it turned out. "Every single one of them, independent of each other, said you can count on oil to be 55 to 60 bucks this year ...They were all wrong," Doherty said. The minister said he's confident in the government's plan to move away from a reliance on non-renewable resources and more of a consumption tax base. No update on wage cuts The province has committed to getting back to balance and part of that plan involved $250 million in wage cuts. Employer groups in the public sector were asked by the government to reduce salaries by 3.5 per cent. Doherty couldn't provide an update on how close the groups are to achieving that goal. Doherty said of the $250 million in public sector wage cuts $50 million comes from out-of-scope employees. He said MLAs and government staff started the process of rolling back their wages as of April 1.  Sask. school workers say 'it's an absolute no' to 3.5% pay cut 3.5% wage reduction already worked into Sask. budget NDP opposition MLA Carla Beck said she's curious to get an update on how many public employees have agreed to the wage cut. She said if the government wanted to cut spending, it could have made other choices. "The fact that they gave $100 million in tax cuts to the wealthiest people and corporations in the province — that is a pretty significant amount of money. I think it's a decision that could have been made differently." MORE SASKATCHEWAN NEWS | 38 beds and 22 jobs lost at Regina long-term care home ?MORE SASKATCHEWAN NEWS | Where will you buy legal pot in Saskatchewan? Corrections An earlier version of this article stated the deficit was four times higher than what the Saskatchewan government had initially predicted. In fact, it's only triple the original figure. Jul 21, 2017 10:29 PM CT with files from CBC's Kevin O'Connor CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Crowns put $219M back into province's pocket, partial sale talks continue Sask. school workers say 'it's an absolute no' to 3.5% pay cut Sask. budget hikes sales tax to 6%, kills provincial bus company Sask. deficit $675M last year, 58% higher than previous estimate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now