Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Sask. to sell 75 more parcels of Crown land in online auction Some land in the untouched, remote corners of Saskatchewan are going up for sale. Social Sharing Bidding will close the 1st week of November The Canadian Press · Posted: Oct 12, 2017 6:52 AM CT | Last Updated: October 12, 2017 Of the 92 parcels of land auctioned off last year, 17 had easements. (Branimir Gjetvaj Photography) Some land in the untouched, remote corners of Saskatchewan is going up for sale. The Saskatchewan government is in the final stages of preparations for an online auction in which 75 parcels of Crown land will go to the highest bidder. Natural forests, natural prairie grasslands and natural wetlands are some of the parcels that will be sold off. Environmentalists say they worry that the land might be converted by the new owners into ploughed fields — more profitable for the owners, but not suitable for natural wildlife to live on. The province says they have assessed the parcels and determined they are somewhat less environmentally sensitive than some others. The auction is set to begin in less than two weeks. Bidding will close the first week of November. Corrections A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that 48 parcels of Crown land will go to the highest bidder. In fact, 75 parcels of land will be auctioned. Oct 12, 2017 4:32 PM CT CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories National heritage group adds pasture land to 'endangered places' list Sask. Pastures Program being phased out Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now