Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan Saskatoon, Regina mayors say public will be consulted over city pot shop plans The mayors of Saskatoon and Regina say the public will be consulted about zoning, bylaws and the locations of up to 13 pot shops the province has agreed to permit between the two cities. Social Sharing Saskatoon already working to include pot in smoking, vaping bans CBC News · Posted: Jan 09, 2018 7:00 AM CT | Last Updated: January 9, 2018 The legal system is bracing for legal cannabis. (Chanss Lagaden/CBC News) comments The mayors of Saskatoon and Regina say the public will be consulted about zoning, bylaws and the locations of up to 13 pot shops the province has agreed to permit between the two cities. The Saskatchewan government announced on Monday that marijuana will be sold by private companies after the drug is federally legalized, which is expected to happen July 1. SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says New Sask. survey says government-run marijuana stores popular idea The announcement comes following pressure from municipal leaders, who said they were unable to prepare for the approaching change without knowing the provincial plan. Saskatchewan was the last of the provinces to announce its policy before legalization.  Under the new rules, Saskatoon will have the option to receive up to seven permits from the Saskatchewan Liquor and Gaming Authority (SLGA) for retailers in that city. Regina will have the option for six pot shops. More 'clarity' will help zoning, says Clark Saskatoon Mayor Charlie Clark is asking the provincial government to move the November 2020 election so it does interfere with municipal elections in Saskatoon. (Chanss Lagaden/CBC News) Saskatoon Mayor Charlie Clark said the city administration can move closer to finalizing its zoning and bylaw changes now that the policy has been released. He said some changes are already being made to regulate the sale of the drug. "We have already at [planning and development] committee today amended the smoking bylaw to make sure, at minimum, cannabis follows the same rules as smoking and vaping," said Clark. Saskatoon mayor calls for pot cash to pay local bill Saskatoon, Regina mayors want marijuana tax revenue to cover municipal costs tied to legalization The mayor does not expect pot sellers will be restricted to industrial areas, adding that liquor stores are already located throughout the city and along major roads. "We'll make sure that any concerns about schools and children's safety and all those things are dealt with, but also that people can access it in a safe way as well," said Clark. He said there would need to be "good public discussion" about where the retailers should be located. Regina mayor says questions remain Regina Mayor Michael Fougere says he still has unanswered questions about the province's plans for legalizing pot, including concerns about municipal revenue sharing. (CBC News) Regina Mayor Michael Fougere said city residents will also be consulted in the process of finalizing bylaw and zoning changes. He said a working group is already preparing a report but it will be based on some "assumptions" until the province provides more information. Fougere said he still has questions and concerns about the new rules, including how the province plans to allow municipalities to "opt out" of allowing pot sales. Regina marijuana dispensaries grow to at least 10 storefronts in city From PST to pot: Sask. Party leadership hopefuls square off in 1st debate "I would be quite certain there would be a legal challenge right away if you don't do it, so why the provision's in there — you'd have to ask the province for that," he said.  "But for us I don't think that would be an issue we would even talk about ... I'm not sure what the compelling reason would be to say no when it's legally regulated and is by law allowed to be used." Revenue-sharing request to be addressed Fougere also wants to know if the province will agree to sharing the tax revenue from marijuana sales to cover costs such as police training, equipment and licensing, something Clark has also been pushing for in Saskatoon. The Federation of Canadian Municipalities has been lobbying the federal government for one third of cannabis tax revenue for local governments across the country. 'The stakes can be very, very big': Saskatchewan's marijuana market getting serious How the provinces are planning for pot legalization Fougere said a one-third share would be a good starting point for discussions over how much the municipalities should receive. Both mayors laughed when they were asked if the public could expect to see them smoking marijuana publicly after the drug becomes legal. Fougere said it was safe to say that would not happen, while Clark said he had not given the idea any thought. "My focus right now is just to help have a well-managed process to sort this out," said Clark. "I haven't given any consideration to whether I'd go out there and light up a joint." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories From PST to pot: Sask. Party leadership hopefuls square off in 1st debate Saskatoon, Regina mayors want marijuana tax revenue to cover municipal costs tied to legalization SLGA to issue about 60 permits to sell cannabis in Sask., government says New Sask. survey says government-run marijuana stores popular idea Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now