Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan School kids with special needs treated as if 'expendable', parent says Trista Wilson's son is one of 66 pre-school aged kids attending a discovery program for special needs children which has been eliminated by Regina Public Schools. Social Sharing Trista Wilson fears her special needs son will be 'lost in the crowd' CBC News · Posted: Apr 11, 2017 10:22 PM CT | Last Updated: April 12, 2017 Jackie Christianson, chairperson of the Education Workers Steering Committee, said it's time for the government to pony up some cash. (Glenn Reid/CBC) There was a rally in front of the Regina Public School Board office on Monday night — the latest in a series of protests in response to provincial budget cuts. A few dozen people, including members of CUPE, a union that represents school support workers, were there to voice their displeasure over recently announced cuts to education. Trista Wilson's son is one of 66 pre-school-aged kids attending a discovery program for special needs children which has been eliminated by Regina Public Schools. Sask. school boards ask parents to speak out about minister getting more control Finance minister says school boards may need to lay workers off "It negatively affects his development right now he's in a classroom with 12 kids," Wilson said. "Everybody is a tight-knit community in there right now.  Kindergarten classroom of 30 kids ... he will be lost in the crowd." Wilson's son has a cognitive disability which affects his speech. Instead of a second year in the discovery program, he will go to kindergarten in the fall. Wilson, who is organizing a Wednesday rally in front of the Legislative Building, says the program cuts make her feel as if the province's "kids are no different than a cable bill, that the government thinks it's expendable." Jackie Christianson, chairperson of the education workers steering committee, said it's time for the government to pony up some cash to save the axed programs. "If the [provincial] government is not funding these programs, you're just going to continue the cycle of taking away from what is funded," Christianson said. "And there's not even enough of that and there's going to have to be harder decisions made." With files from Glenn Reid CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Educator calls for compromise in Regina Public Schools impasse Education minister won't approve program cuts announced by Regina Public Schools Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now