Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon·Video Scott Moe says 1997 collision that left 1 person dead has shaped his life, career Saskatchewan Party leadership candidate Scott Moe is speaking out again about his involvement in a fatal highway crash 20 years ago. Social Sharing Moe is one of the people running to lead the governing Sask. Party Charles Hamilton, Guy Quenneville · CBC News · Posted: Sep 08, 2017 9:04 AM CT | Last Updated: September 9, 2017 Interview: Jill Morgan talks to Scott Moe Saskatchewan4 years ago 4:00Sask. Party leadership candidate Scott Moe is talking about a fatal MVA he caused many years ago. 4:00 Saskatchewan Party leadership candidate Scott Moe says a highway collision he was involved in 20 years ago that left another person dead has influenced his decisions as a citizen and politician. With heavy Sask. Party caucus backing, Scott Moe enters leadership race Jeremy Harrison withdraws from Sask. Party leadership race, backs Scott Moe "It's a day that I live with each and every day in my life," Moe told CBC News hours after releasing a statement about the incident. "And I know there's another family that lives with it in a much larger capacity than I do." 'Without due care and attention' Moe says he was driving toward his family's farm in Shellbrook, located about 140 kilometres from Saskatoon, after having had an early breakfast at his grandparents' home. The collision, which Moe says he does not specifically recall, happened at around 6 a.m. CST as he was crossing Highway 3 to get to the family farm. "The RCMP did conduct an investigation and a re-enactment of the accident scene and they did determine that I crossed when it was unsafe and I didn't stop fully at the highway," said Moe. Moe says alcohol was not a factor in the incident. He received a ticket for driving without due care and attention, which is a provincial traffic offence, and not a Criminal Code of Canada matter. 'Could this have been different?' Moe says he's bringing the incident to light again in the wake of questions he's received about it after last week's announcement that he wants to lead the Saskatchewan Party after Premier Brad Wall steps aside. Moe says he's wrestled with feelings of guilt over the incident. "You ask yourself all sorts of questions in the weeks and days and months after. Questions like, 'Why not me?' Questions like, 'Had it been a few moments earlier, could this have been different?' "The fact of the matter is, it's an accident, and you try to use the outcomes of that accident to help you shape the best decisions that, in my case, that I can, in my personal life, in my career." Saskatchewan Party leadership candidate Scott Moe is providing new details about his involvement in a fatal highway crash 20 years ago. (Guy Quenneville/CBC) Moe cites "different decisions through SGI," the province's public auto insurer, as a professional example. Last year, the provincial government introduced stricter anti-drunk driving rules, including the ability of police to seize and impound the car of an experienced driver found to have .04 to .08 per cent alcohol in their blood — on a first offence. More recently, SGI filed a statement of claim against two bars that served the impaired driver who killed a family of four in January 2016. SGI suing bars that served impaired driver who killed Saskatoon family Moe, who represents the Rosthern-Shellbrook constituency, resigned his post as environment minister last week and announced his bid to run for the Saskatchewan Party leadership. Moe has the support of several prominent Saskatchewan Party caucus members, including Health Minister Jim Reiter, Finance Minister Donna Harpauer, Advanced Education Minister Kevin Doherty and Education Minister Bronwyn Eyre. During his campaign announcement, Moe addressed his 1992 conviction for drunk driving at the age of 18. That incident is completely unrelated to the fatal collision that took place five years later. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now