Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Senate deal on cannabis bill timeline means no sales before August Leaders in the Senate have reached a deal on a timeline for the legalization of cannabis — a schedule that pushes the start of retail sales past July 1, the date that had been floated in the past as the government's target. Social Sharing Health minister has said governments will need eight to 12 weeks to prepare for retail sales John Paul Tasker · CBC News · Posted: Feb 15, 2018 4:11 PM ET | Last Updated: February 16, 2018 Cannabis at Canopy Growth's Smiths Falls facility on Jan. 26, 2018. (Evan Mitsui/CBCNews) comments Leaders in the Senate have reached a deal on a timeline for the legalization of cannabis — a schedule that pushes the start of retail sales past July 1, the date that had been floated in the past as the government's target. Peter Harder, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's point-man in the Senate, and Larry Smith, the Conservative leader in the upper house, have agreed on a path forward for Bill C-45, CBC News has confirmed. While Harder had wanted a vote at third reading in May — the last legislative stage before a bill receives royal assent — that vote will now be held on or before June 7. Health Minister Ginette Petitpas Taylor told members of the Red Chamber last week that it will take 8 to 12 weeks to get the retail system up and running after the legislation receives royal assent. That means Canadians probably can't expect to buy legal weed before early August. Petitpas-Taylor on when pot will be sold legally Politics3 years ago 0:37Petitpas-Taylor on when pot will be sold legally 0:37 "There's no exact date but, if you do the math, you'll see it won't be July 2018," Petitpas Taylor told reporters Thursday. "Cannabis legalization is not about a date, it's about a process ... We want this process done as seamlessly as possible." The bill, as currently written, stipulates the law does not come into force until a date is fixed by an order of the governor in council (Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's cabinet). Tories are 'quite pleased' with new timeline The delayed timeline is a victory for Conservatives, who have demanded more time to study the implications of legalizing a drug that has been outlawed for more than 100 years. A senior Conservative source, speaking on background to CBC News, said they were "quite pleased" they secured more time from the government through these negotiations. "The table has been set for what we've asked for all along — a thorough examination of the bill," the source said. "There's lots in the legislation that is of concern to us." The Conservative source said a "handful" of amendments to the bill are expected in the intervening months. "It's not a matter of what's being done. It's a matter of how it's being done." Tory senators not inclined to rush debate on bill to legalize cannabis Research lacking on medical marijuana, new prescription guideline suggests Conservative senators are worried the legislation will endanger youth, increase smoking rates, complicate the work of police officers, lead to a backlog of court cases for possession offences and do little to curb black market sales of the drug. Defenders of the bill — including its sponsor in the Senate, Independent Ontario Sen. Tony Dean — say the government does not have the luxury of time. They say illegal cannabis use — a $7 billion industry that funnels funds into the hands of organized crime, according to government figures — will continue unabated without the benefit of federal regulations. This week, Harder floated the idea of invoking time allocation to shut down debate and force a vote if Conservatives stalled the bill's passage beyond a reasonable date. That option is off the table now that all sides have agreed to this timeline. "This should give stakeholders, governments, businesses, law enforcement agencies and other Canadians a timeline for how and when the bill will be ultimately dealt with by the Upper Chamber," Harder said in a statement Thursday. The legislation will be sent to five different Senate committees for further study — an unusual move. The Red Chamber's social affairs committee will take the lead and review the legalization framework in its entirety, while the Aboriginal peoples committee will look at how the bill affects Indigenous peoples. The legal and constitutional affairs committee will focus on criminal measures; much of the bill deals with changes to the Criminal Code. The Senate agreed Thursday to send parts of the bill to the national security and defence committee to review the bill's implications for the country's police, and to the foreign affairs committee to review how the bill will affect Canada's international obligations, including changes required at the border after cannabis becomes legal. Bill Blair on new cannabis bill timeline Politics News3 years ago 5:59'One of the things that is helpful is we have a much greater certainty around timelines now,' says the government's pot point person Bill Blair. 5:59 About the Author John Paul Tasker Parliamentary Bureau John Paul (J.P.) Tasker is a reporter in the CBC's Parliamentary bureau in Ottawa. He can be reached at john.tasker@cbc.ca. Follow J.P. on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Tory senators not inclined to rush debate on bill to legalize cannabis Research lacking on medical marijuana, new prescription guideline suggests Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now