Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Sixties Scoop adoptees head across Canada to try to scuttle $800M settlement Sixties Scoop adoptees who are trying to scuttle a proposed $800 million settlement are planning to visit cities across Canada to gather signatures before a May court date. Social Sharing Group has 500 of 2,000 signatures needed to stop settlement from going ahead CBC News · Posted: Mar 16, 2018 2:08 PM CT | Last Updated: March 16, 2018 Coleen Rajotte, the president of the Manitoba Sixties Scoop Survivors Association, is working to scuttle an $800-million settlement. (CBC) Sixties Scoop adoptees who are trying to scuttle a proposed $800-million settlement plan to visit cities across Canada to gather signatures before a May court date. The group needs 2,000 signatures to scuttle the settlement, which could see payouts of between $25,000 and $50,000 for each claimant. The national settlement is also expected to put an end to most of the 18 related lawsuits that are currently active. But the Manitoba Sixties Scoop Survivors Association opposes the settlement, saying there are multiple issues with the settlement, including high lawyer fees, too-small payouts and a lack of consultation. Ottawa announces $800M settlement with Indigenous survivors of Sixties Scoop Sixties Scoop settlement the latest involving Canadian Indigenous people "Why should lawyers get rich on the backs of our pain and suffering," said Coleen Rajotte, the president of the association. "This is not good enough. Not good enough in any way, shape or form." Rajotte said on April 2, the association will head to Vancouver, Edmonton, Calgary, Saskatoon, North Battleford and several northern Manitoba communities to get signatures before presenting them in court on May 19. Rajotte said they want to see a new process with a renegotiated settlement that includes capped lawyers' fees. "We want a process similar to what residential school survivors got," she said. "This agreement only covers cultural loss and adoptees should be compensated for physical and sexual abuse. We just want to have a say in how this is all done." Métis Sixties Scoop survivor sues federal and Saskatchewan governments Sixties Scoop compensation excludes Métis, non-status Indigenous Peoples The disagreement over whether or not people should sign a petition to scuttle the proposed deal led to the cancellation of a rally on Friday. Sixties Scoop survivors were scheduled to rally in cities across the country, but Winnipeg's march and rally were cancelled after about 30 people had gathered. Organizer Connie Calderwood said they cancelled due to disagreements over the settlement, but she hoped the event wouldn't be tied to accepting the settlement or not. "Today was supposed to be about solidarity. We were wearing our purple ribbons," she said. "They said, 'We don't want to walk. There's no point in walking.' " Calderwood supports the deal. "You're looking at possibly another 10 years? We're getting old. It's not about the money to me. I want to start healing in my life," she said. "I want everything to be over with." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sixties Scoop adoptees want to scuttle $800M settlement, saying it's just not enough CBC NEWS Ottawa announces $800M settlement with Indigenous survivors of Sixties Scoop Sixties Scoop settlement the latest involving Canadian Indigenous people Métis Sixties Scoop survivor sues federal and Saskatchewan governments Sixties Scoop compensation excludes Métis, non-status Indigenous Peoples Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now