Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia St. Martha's Regional Hospital hit with obstetrician shortage A doctor is speaking out about the fact a shortage of obstetricians means no babies will be delivered next week at St. Martha's Regional Hospital in Antigonish. Social Sharing This will be the second time this month no babies will be delivered at the hospital CBC News · Posted: Jun 19, 2015 1:11 PM AT | Last Updated: June 19, 2015 With no delivery service taking place at St. Martha's Regional Hospital, it will mean expecting mothers from southern Cape Breton will have to travel an additional 40 minutes to the Aberdeen Hospital in New Glasgow. (Regis Duvignau/Reuters) comments A doctor is speaking out about the fact a shortage of obstetricians means no babies will be delivered next week at St. Martha's Regional Hospital in Antigonish. "What happens is they just don't have coverage to provide call every night, so they have a three-day gap where they have no obstetrician," said Dr. Robyn MacQuarrie, a doctor who works in Amherst. Robyn MacQuarrie, an obstetrician in Amherst, said she and other ob-gyn's warned the province that without changes to the malpractice insurance reimbursement system, ob-gybn's would leave the province. (CBC) She says a recent change to the way the province reimburses doctors for malpractice insurance is chasing talented doctors out of Nova Scotia because they can get better deals in every other province in Atlantic Canada. "It's happening to Antigonish now. We warned the government this is going to happen and they didn't take us seriously," said MacQuarrie. She and other ob-gyn's have been pushing the Nova Scotia government to improve the the reimbursement system. She says they have had meetings with the province, but there haven't been any developments from the province's side. "We're saying this is real and it's going to happen, and they think we're trying to negotiate," said MacQuarrie. This will be the second time this month where no babies will be delivered at St. Martha's Regional Hospital. A longer drive With no delivery service taking place, it will also mean that expecting mothers from southern Cape Breton will have to travel an additional 40 minutes to the Aberdeen Hospital in New Glasgow. Five recently graduated doctors in Nova Scotia are all leaving the province to work elsewhere. The Nova Scotia Health Authority says a recently-hired obstetrician and midwife will help the situation once they begin working in the summer. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Antigonish hospital won't be delivering babies until Thursday Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now