Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Statistics Canada looking down the drain to determine levels of pot consumption The federal government is taking a somewhat noxious approach to studying just how much pot Canadians are consuming: researching our sewage. Social Sharing Waste water would be collected over the course of one week every month for at least one year Levi Garber · The Canadian Press · Posted: Feb 14, 2018 7:56 AM ET | Last Updated: February 14, 2018 Statistics Canada will spend up to $600,000 a year for a contractor to regularly test waste water from 15 to 20 municipalities across the country for traces of THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, and other drugs. (Cal Tobin/CBC) comments The federal government is taking a somewhat noxious approach to studying just how much pot Canadians are consuming: researching our sewage. Statistics Canada will spend up to $600,000 a year for a contractor to regularly test waste water from 15 to 20 municipalities across the country for traces of THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, and other drugs. The survey could be the best way to collect precise data on the amount of pot Canadians consume, according to Anthony Peluso, an assistant director at Statistics Canada. Pot consumers paying less than $7 a gram, Statistics Canada survey finds Trudeau's Senate point man prepared to limit debate on cannabis bill "We want to have a good indication of actual consumption numbers," said Peluso. "Sometimes we do get quantities, but we're not sure." Peluso said that by using the same methodology from sewage analysis surveys in Europe that have proven accurate in the past, Statistics Canada believes it will be able to fill some of its information gap that way. After cannabis is metabolized by the body, traces of THC are left behind in human waste. Samples of waste water from sewage treatment plants can then be collected and tested for the substance. Sewer robots sampling human waste may track drugs, disease through cities 6 municipalities on board The waste water would be collected over the course of one week every month for at least one year with the possibility of expanding to three if the results are useful, according to Statistics Canada's contract proposal. Six municipalities covering a combined population of nearly eight million people are already on board with the survey. But Statistics Canada would not say which municipalities have signed on. Peluso indicated that the survey may also help the federal government track pot purchased on the black market even after the drug is legalized in July. "It is possible that if we're able to get the consumption numbers and figure out what legal sales are, we might be able to get some estimate of illegal consumption as well," he said. That's because the waste water tests will show how much marijuana is actually consumed, while legal sales data will only show how much pot is bought on the official market. The technology used to track marijuana consumption in waste water can also be used to detect other drugs like cocaine and methamphetamines. Peluso said Statistics Canada is planning on taking advantage of that data as well. "The methodology is there. It handles cannabis and it handles everything else for roughly the same price," he said. "You'd be a fool to say no from a statistical point of view." DATTA Engineering Inc., a civil engineering and infrastructure firm based in Ottawa, has already indicated interest in the contract. Bidding for the contract closes Feb. 26. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canadians spent $5.7B on marijuana last year, StatsCan estimates Sewer robots sampling human waste may track drugs, disease through cities Pharmaceuticals in wastewater target of sewage treatment study StatsCan uses crowdsourcing to collect data on pot prices Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now