Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury Sudbury preparing for legal marijuana, retail store The City of Greater Sudbury is getting ready for the legalization of marijuana, and for the arrival of one of the first retail stores in Ontario. Social Sharing Public safety and health expected to present greatest challenges for the city Robin De Angelis · CBC News · Posted: Dec 18, 2017 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: December 18, 2017 The City of Greater Sudbury is working with the province to prepare for the legalization of marijuana. (Rafferty Baker/CBC) comments The City of Greater Sudbury is getting ready for the legalization of marijuana, and for the arrival of one of the first retail stores in Ontario. Last week, the Ontario government passed the Cannabis Act, which gives the province a monopoly on recreational sales, and establishes an agency to distribute and sell marijuana. The news came one day after the federal government announced that 75 per cent of tax revenues from those sales will go towards the provinces. Ontario passes marijuana law, sets stage for government-run pot shops Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram Kevin Fowke, the general manager of corporate services for the City of Greater Sudbury, says municipalities are now coming together with the province to work out the details of legalization. Legalization expected to cost cities money "The priorities from our perspective are about five-fold," said Fowke. They include public safety and enforcement, public health, core municipal functions like planning and zoning, business regulation and tax revenue. Fowke expects public safety and public health to present the biggest challenges — and cost the most money. Kevin Fowke, general manager of corporate services for the City of Greater Sudbury, says a lot of the details of legalization still have to be worked out at the municipal level. (Markus Schwabe/CBC) Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne has indicated that a portion of the province's tax revenues will help municipalities shoulder those costs. "Certainly as children of the province, we will be in line to realize the benefits that we can, because there are services and there are impacts here," said Fowke. Other elements, like planning and zoning for the new retail store, will present less of a challenge because the city deals with this kind of commercial development on a regular basis. LCBO accepting public feedback on retail site Fowke says the city is currently working with the Ministry of Finance and the Liquor Control Board on Ontario (LCBO) to identify potential sites for the store. "We've been sending information back and forth with them on locations that are appropriately zoned, that would fit their criteria and adhere to our zoning bylaws." Marijuana economics: predicting Ontario's legal pot market Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, slated to be first of 14 Ontario municipalities to get cannabis stores The LCBO is actively seeking public feedback on site selection online, and city council will have a chance to weigh in on the proposed site sometime in January. But Fowke says the final decision about where the store will go ultimately falls to the LCBO. "This is their process and so like any other retail establishment that wants to set up within our city, if they've got appropriately zoned land, really they have every right and ability to move and to purchase that land." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario passes marijuana law, sets stage for government-run pot shops Liberals reach deal with the provinces on sharing pot tax revenue, with price pegged at about $10 a gram 15 more municipalities selected for LCBO-run cannabis stores Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, slated to be first of 14 Ontario municipalities to get cannabis stores Marijuana economics: predicting Ontario's legal pot market Sudbury police chief sitting with 'fingers crossed' as province promises drug-detection tools External Links LCBO Cannabis Updates - Feedback Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now