Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury Sudbury group responsible for picking up used needles asking public to help find hotspots The organization that picks up needles in downtown Sudbury says it needs the public’s help to get them off the streets. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 11, 2017 3:05 PM ET | Last Updated: December 11, 2017 The Sudbury Action Centre for Youth says in the month of November, staff with the centre picked up 13,000 needles. (Markus Schwabe/CBC) The organization that picks up needles in downtown Sudbury says it needs the public's help to get them off the streets. The Sudbury Action Centre for Youth has had the city contract to pick up needles since the beginning of November. In the first month they picked up 13,000 needles. Fred Dunham is a community support worker with the centre. He says there are hot spots he checks everyday, but says there are always needles his group misses. Fred Dunham is a community support worker at the Sudbury Action Centre for Youth. (Markus Schwabe/CBC) Dunham says he tries to spread the word when he is out. "I'll hand them a card right away and say 'hey, give us a call if you see syringes,' [and] sure enough they'll turn around and go, 'oh go up that hill, there are dozens,'" he said. "There are certain spots in the downtown core that we sweep everyday. We walk around first thing in the morning, we hit all the hot spots and then we go back and answer the phone to see if someone has called in." Dunham says the city has put out five needle disposal bins throughout the city. "People are using these," he said. "It's keeping syringes off the streets." However, even though those bins are being used, Dunham says his crew still finds many needles throughout the city. Reducing harm Chasse Gibeault also works at the action centre.  He's the one who gives out needles to drug users so they don't spread infection. He says he isn't helping people take drugs, but rather helping to reducing harm. Chasse Gibeault is an outreach worker at the Sudbury Action Centre for Youth. (Markus Schwabe/CBC) "You can't get them treatment if they're not staying safe, right, if they're not staying alive," Gibeault explained. "So that's our goal, keeping them alive to be able to get that help when they feel like they need it." Dunham says people can call 311 to report discarded used needles, and the call will be redirected. The action centre has the contract to pick up needles until the end of December. Dunham says he hopes it will be renewed in the new year. With files from Jan Lakes and Markus Schwabe CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sudbury City Hall City of Greater Sudbury delivers $12K for dirty needle pickup Four new needle disposal bins to be installed in Sudbury Audio Does Sudbury need a safe injection site? 'Yes, we do,' harm reduction advocate says 'Get the needles out from the playgrounds': Sudbury searches for funds to buy more disposal bins Needle disposal program to expand in Sudbury, Ont. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now