Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury Sudbury doctor says Canada needs to rethink drug policy A Sudbury doctor says Canada’s current approach to drug policy is not working. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 02, 2018 4:45 PM ET | Last Updated: February 2, 2018 A Sudbury doctor says Canada could look to Portugal for a new drug policy approach, which would include decriminalization. (CBC) A Sudbury doctor says Canada's current approach to drug policy is not working. The federal government is in the process of legalizing marijuana, which is expected to be legal sometime this summer. Until then, the drug remains illegal and people are being charged under drug laws. The Liberals will discuss decriminalizing use and possession of narcotics at the party's policy convention in April, and some members hope the party will include decriminalization in the party's election platform in 2019. 'It's been a long time coming' — Sudbury harm reduction groups look at temporary safe injection site Health care workers not surprised by number of used needles collected in Sudbury This Sudbury group picked up 13K needles in November "The idea [is] that making possession, production and sale of all these drugs completely illegal and heavily enforcing it would somehow decrease the supply and decrease the number of people who use. There's no evidence that has had any effectiveness," Dr. David Marsh, a professor of clinical sciences at the Northern Ontario School of Medicine said. "Over the last number of decades, the number of availability of drugs has continued to go up and the price and purity has fallen. There's pretty good objective evidence that the prohibition against drugs is a complete failure." Looking to other countries Marsh says the approach to decriminalize would be different for each drug. "Roughly speaking, the more addictive the drug is, the more harm it does to individuals lives, the more carefully the approach has to be crafted," he said. Dr. David Marsh a professor of clinical sciences at the Northern Ontario school of Medicine and has been working in addiction medicine since 1995. (Supplied/NOSM) Marsh says Canada could look to Portugal, where all drugs for personal possession have been decriminalized for a number of years. "They have a system where people who are identified as drug users are then reviewed by a panel of experts and have a treatment program and other measures developed and tailored to their individual needs," he said. "Rather than spending a lot of money on incarceration and the legal system in a process that we know has no long term benefit for society or the drug user … they spend that money on providing good quality treatment." Marsh says last year, Portugal had 30 overdose deaths. He says on a bad weekend, Canada can see that many overdose deaths. "There's really major positive changes that could result from a change in the drug policy approach," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Emergency summit to be held on illegal drugs and alcohol Sudbury harm reduction experts consider temporary safe injection site Health care workers not surprised by number of used needles collected in Sudbury Sudbury group responsible for picking up used needles asking public to help find hotspots Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now