Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan SUMA to tackle environmental issues, emergency response during annual convention The Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association's (SUMA) annual convention kicked off Sunday in Regina. This year's theme is 'The Power of Hometowns.' Social Sharing Sessions are focusing on several issues facing towns and cities in Sask. CBC News · Posted: Feb 05, 2018 9:00 AM CT | Last Updated: February 5, 2018 SUMA President Gordon Barnhart. The annual convention runs until Wednesday. (Matthew Howard/CBC) The Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association's (SUMA) annual convention kicked off Sunday in Regina. This year's theme is 'The Power of Hometowns.' On Monday morning, Premier Scott Moe is expected to address the convention, which is being held at the Queensbury Convention Centre. Several ministers are also expected to speak.  'A very difficult decision': Premier Scott Moe unveils new cabinet Resolutions are presented each year by elected officials such as mayors or councillors. They outline what issues towns and cities across the province are facing. Looking through the list of resolutions, there seems to be a particular emphasis on the environment and first responders. Some resolutions are: Energy East: presented by the town of Moosomin, goal is to renew the push for the approval of the Energy East pipeline New environmental code: presented by the town of Shellbrook, goal is to phase in the new environmental code to ease the stress on municipalities First responders: presented by the village of Torquay, goal is to acquire funding from the Ministry of Health for the recruitment and training of first responders Critical incident stress management for Saskatchewan firefighters: presented by the town of Balgonie, suggesting a one-time, per capita $0.50 levy from all residents in the SUMA and SARM (Saskatchewan Association of Rural Municipalities) member areas; funds raised going to the Saskatchewan Volunteer Firefighter's Association to help cover the cost of mental health supports There are 23 resolutions in total. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now