Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon SUMA says provincial cuts will force Sask. towns, cities to hike taxes The Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association is asking the provincial government to reverse millions of dollars in cuts to the province's towns and cities. Social Sharing Provincial government cut $36M in municipal funding in 2017 budget CBC News · Posted: Mar 28, 2017 12:32 PM CT | Last Updated: March 28, 2017 Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association president Gordon Barnhart is asking the provincial government to reverse millions of dollars of cuts to towns and cities across Saskatchewan. (Matthew Howard/CBC) The Saskatchewan Urban Municipalities Association is asking the provincial government to reverse millions of dollars in cuts to the province's towns and cities. SUMA president Gordon Barnhart said the 2017 budget cut millions of dollars in payments-in-lieu from Saskatchewan municipalities. As a result, many cities will likely need to reopen their budgets. "The province has eliminated $36 million in funding from more than 100 hometowns without consultation," Barnhart said in a news release. "Many councils will need to hike property taxes to stay in the black." Premier Brad Wall says cuts to revenue sharing, urban parks on table when dealing with $1.2B deficit Regina city council directs administration to re-open 2017 municipal budget Provincial budget hits Yorkton hardest The statement from SUMA is a marked difference from the reception Premier Brad Wall received at the group's convention in February, where he received a standing ovation. At the time, Wall warned that everything was on the table, including payments-in-lieu from Crown corporations. "This is no longer a respectful partnership between governments," Barnhart said. "Hometowns are handcuffed by limited revenue sources and the inability to run an operating deficit. And now, they are being forced to do the province's dirty work." The province has responded to the outcry from municipalities by advising mayors and councillors to reduce spending and dip into financial reserves.  This is no longer a respectful partnership between governments.- SUMA president Gordon Barnhart "Many communities do not have large reserves," Barnhart said. "Besides, reserve funds are usually a contingency plan for snow removal emergencies, major water main breaks, and other unexpected catastrophic infrastructure needs — not for last-minute, permanent cuts by the province." Different communities have reacted in different ways. Saskatoon city council has threatened to take the province to court over the issue, while Regina has voted to reopen the city's budget to find solutions. Saskatoon city council pursuing legal measures, other revenue following loss of provincial grants Sask. budget hikes sales tax to 6%, kills provincial bus company Government Relations Minister Donna Harpauer said the provincial government has been generous to towns and cities since it formed government, allocating $2 billion dollars in municipal revenue-sharing grants. The cuts were one part of a budget designed to tame a $696 million deficit. Other measures include a one per cent increase in the provincial sales tax and the closure of the Saskatchewan Transportation Company bus service. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Of Sask. cities, provincial budget hits Yorkton hardest Regina city council directs administration to reopen 2017 municipal budget Saskatoon city council pursuing legal measures, other revenue following loss of provincial grants Sask. property owners to pay $67M more education tax this year Sask. budget hikes sales tax to 6%, kills provincial bus company Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now