Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Take a sneak peek inside one of Nova Scotia's legal pot stores Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation executives showed off one of their new cannabis retail stores in Halifax on Wednesday that will begin selling pot on Oct. 17, when widespread pot use becomes legal across Canada. Social Sharing 12 NSLC locations will be tasked with selling cannabis once it becomes legalized on Oct. 17 Paul Palmeter · CBC News · Posted: Jul 18, 2018 1:10 PM AT | Last Updated: July 18, 2018 Here's what to expect when walking into the cannabis section of this newly-renovated NSLC store 3 years ago 0:49NSLC says more than half of its 12 marijuana locations are at this state of completion. The rest will be finished by October. 0:49 Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation executives showed off one of their new cannabis retail stores in Halifax on Wednesday that will begin selling pot on Oct. 17, when widespread pot use becomes legal across Canada. President and CEO Bret Mitchell started the tour of the cannabis outlet inside the NSLC store on Joseph Howe Drive at the entrance to the cannabis section, which is located behind frosted glass at the back of the liquor store. "We call it privacy without barriers," said Mitchell. "People who are not 19 years or older cannot see in here by federal law, so we have frosted the glass." There are dedicated entry and exit doors, and views of the inside of the cannabis retail space are concealed. NSLC's cannabis stores are going old school with product behind the counters NSLC to stock hundreds of cannabis products — just not many from here: CEO 3 more NSLC stores to be renovated to sell cannabis this fall The store will still need a bit of fine tuning before cannabis will legally be sold starting Oct. 17, but it is close to being complete. More than half of the 12 NSLC locations that will sell cannabis are at this state of completion, but all will be ready by the start date. "Seven of the original nine stores are at this level and we have two more that we'll be completing in time for October," said Mitchell. "We actually slowed down a little bit on them because we didn't want to waste a lot of money for what was initially an artificial July date." The province announced last December that recreational pot will only be sold in Nova Scotia through the NSLC, a Crown Corporation. The agency will also sell online. NSLC president and CEO Bret Mitchell conducted the tour Wednesday at the Joseph Howe Drive NSLC location in Halifax. (Paul Palmeter/CBC) Mitchell said it could take 15 minutes for patrons to enter the store, make a purchase and leave. More than 70 strains of cannabis will be available, and the maximum amount of cannabis a customer can purchase at one time is 30 grams. The products will be housed behind a counter and retrieved by staff. (Paul Palmeter/CBC) Staffing for the stores has already been resolved as many existing NSLC employees transition into the new roles. In September, they'll get cannabis sales training. The price of cannabis hasn't been set yet and there will be no Nova Scotia-grown product available for sale, unless one of the province's three licensed growers gets a sales license from Health Canada before Oct. 17. Screens on the walls will display information about cannabis pricing. (Paul Palmeter/CBC) Those facilities are located in Antigonish County, Wentworth and Liverpool. The Halifax store will have eight iPads for consumers to use to select what cannabis to purchase. Those who sell pot illegally will face $10K fine under Nova Scotia law In Nova Scotia, prepare to drive a long way for your pot "The tablets themselves are dedicated to our cannabis website and consumers can go to that to access learning and education on there, as well as scan through the assortment of product that we have and then they can talk to our staff and make their choices," said Mitchell. This archival photo shows what a former NSLC outlet on Buckingham Street in Halifax looked like. Just like this store, NSLC locations selling cannabis will keep the product behind the counter. (Nova Scotia Liquor Corporation) Mitchell said customers who become familiar with the website before coming in to the store will probably have a quicker sales process. Customers can also make their purchases online and home delivery is an option. About the Author Paul Palmeter Reporter Paul Palmeter is an award-winning video journalist born and raised in the Annapolis Valley. He has covered news and sports stories across the province for 30 years. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories NSLC's cannabis stores are going old school with product behind the counters NSLC to stock hundreds of cannabis products — just not many from here: CEO 3 more NSLC stores to be renovated to sell cannabis this fall Those who sell pot illegally will face $10K fine under Nova Scotia law In Nova Scotia, prepare to drive a long way for your pot Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now