Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics·PODCAST The Pollcast: Who will be the next premier of Saskatchewan? Pollcast host Éric Grenier is joined by Murray Mandryk, political columnist for the Regina Leader-Post, to break down Saturday's Saskatchewan Party leadership vote. Social Sharing Host Éric Grenier is joined by Murray Mandryk of the Regina Leader-Post CBC News · Posted: Jan 24, 2018 1:39 PM ET | Last Updated: January 24, 2018 Five candidates are in the running to replace Brad Wall as leader of the Saskatchewan Party and premier of the province. From right, Ken Cheveldayoff, Gord Wyant, Tina Beaudry-Mellor, Alanna Koch and Scott Moe. (Adam Hunter/CBC) comments The CBC Pollcast explores the world of electoral politics, political polls and the trends they reveal. ?When members of the Saskatchewan Party select their new leader on Saturday, they will be choosing not only Brad Wall's replacement, but the next premier of Saskatchewan. Frequently polling as the country's most popular premier, Wall has punched well above his province's weight on the national stage. The next leader of the Saskatchewan Party will have big shoes to fill. Who will it be? Polls on Sask. Party leadership marred by small sample, narrow definition Podcasts: Subscribe to the CBC Pollcast? Five candidates are in the running. They include MLAs Tina Beaudry-Mellor, Ken Cheveldayoff, Scott Moe and Gord Wyant, along with Alanna Koch, former deputy minister in the premier's office. Polling has been problematic and fundraising has been competitive, so it is difficult to know who is the favourite to win the race. Murray Mandryk, political columnist for the Regina Leader-Post, says the consensus favourites are Cheveldayoff, Moe and Koch, with Wyant having an outside chance as well. But that is about as clear as the picture gets. To breakdown the state of the race and the impact these candidates will have on politics both inside Saskatchewan and across the country, host Éric Grenier is joined by Mandryk on the latest episode of the Pollcast. Listen to the full discussion above — or subscribe to the CBC Pollcast here and listen to past episodes.? Follow Éric Grenier and Murray Mandryk on Twitter. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Eric Grenier's Pollcast A 'Rolling Stone farewell tour': Premier Brad Wall attends final cabinet meeting, resigns as MLA Latest polls on Sask. Party leadership race marred by small sample, narrow definition PODCAST The Pollcast: Are millennials now Canada's most important voters? PODCAST The Pollcast: Ontario's muddy political landscape PODCAST The Pollcast: Predicting the unpredictable in 2018 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now