Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Those who sell pot illegally will face $10K fine under Nova Scotia law The Nova Scotia government will also allow police to suspend the licences to drivers suspected of being stoned behind the wheel. Social Sharing Cannabis Control Act also introduces licence suspensions for drivers impaired by cannabis Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Apr 03, 2018 1:20 PM AT | Last Updated: April 3, 2018 The proposed law makes it illegal for anyone other than the Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. to sell cannabis once it becomes legal this summer. (Canadian Press) comments Drivers who toke in Nova Scotia will face stiff penalties if they are deemed to be impaired behind the wheel, and people who continue to sell pot, especially to those under 19, could face a $10,000 fine. Those are just some of the provisions in the Cannabis Control Act introduced in the Nova Scotia Legislature Tuesday afternoon by Justice Minister Mark Furey. "Our main priority has been the health and safety of Nova Scotians, especially children and youth," he told reporters before the bill was introduced. The proposed law makes it illegal in the province for anyone other than the Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. to sell cannabis once it becomes legal this summer. Federal campaigns have educated millions of youths about dangers of pot: minister Health Canada proposes strict limits on marijuana packaging, production Those who sell illegally face a $10,000 fine. Stores that continue to sell pot face fines of no less than $10,000 and up to $25,000. "Dispensaries are illegal presently, dispensaries will be illegal once legislation is rolled out," said Furey, who expects there may be a crackdown by police once the proposed law is brought into force. "We may see a spike in [enforcement]." Those who buy cannabis in Nova Scotia from anyone other than the NSLC may be fined up to $250. Young people who are caught with pot will face a $150 fine. Even selling a bong, roach clip, rolling papers or other drug paraphernalia to someone under 19 is an offence that carries a fine. Justice Minister Mark Furey. (CBC) When it comes to driving, cannabis can only be in a vehicle if it is in a sealed package and out of reach to both the driver and passengers. No one in the vehicle is allowed to smoke pot. Violators face a $2,000 fine, and the rules extend to motorized boats. If police deem a driver to be impaired, they will have the power to suspend the driver's licence, seize vehicles and demand a saliva swab or blood sample in order to determine their level of impairment. Under the Criminal Code of Canada, those convicted of impaired driving face a fine of at least $1,000 and a driving prohibition for a year, for a first offence. A second offence sees the minimum penalty increase to 30 days in jail and a lengthier minimum driving prohibition. But even if authorities don't lay a charge, under Nova Scotia's law an officer can immediately suspend a driver's licence for a week if they believe them to be impaired. It's similar to the current law for drivers with a blood-alcohol level over 0.05 but below the 0.08 criminal threshold. For subsequent "incidents" police will have the power to extend those suspensions to between 15 to 30 days.  "Let me be clear, driving while high is not only dangerous, it is a crime and the legislation provides strong sanctions for those who drive while impaired," said Furey. THE FIFTH ESTATELike 'flipping a coin': Why it's so hard to test drivers for pot Andrew Murie, the CEO of MADD Canada, is pleased with what the McNeil government is proposing. "We've been monitoring all provinces of what they're doing with cannabis and driving," he said. "And though Nova Scotia was one of the last two provinces to bring in provincial legislation to deal with drugs and driving, this is the most comprehensive that we've seen so far." That's because the proposed law mirrors MADD Canada's position when it comes to impaired driving. "What we do for alcohol, we should be doing for cannabis," said Murie. "Impairment by drugs by alcohol or a combination is the same." The Cannabis Act also gives landlords the right to ban smoking cannabis or growing it in their apartment buildings and allows tenants to give early notice if they want out of their leases to move to another building that does allow it. Last month, the province announced it will treat toking the same way it treats smoking in public places. That means people will not be able to smoke pot inside public venues or in outdoor spaces frequented by children, including parks, playgrounds and hiking trails.  About the Author Jean Laroche Reporter Jean Laroche has been a CBC reporter for 32 years. He's been covering Nova Scotia politics since 1995 and has been at Province House longer than any sitting member. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Federal campaigns have educated millions of youths about dangers of pot: minister No reason legalized pot should prompt tighter screening at U.S. border: Goodale Health Canada proposes strict limits on marijuana packaging, production Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now