Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Three-pronged pot consultation won't include public meetings If you want to tell the Nova Scotia government your thoughts on pot — how it should be sold, how old you should be to buy it, or where to legally consume it — you'll have to go online or be home when a pollster calls. Social Sharing Roll-out of Nova Scotia's public consultation plan coming in next few weeks Jean Laroche · CBC News · Posted: Sep 28, 2017 6:00 AM AT | Last Updated: September 28, 2017 If you want to tell the Nova Scotia government your thoughts on legalized marijuana, be prepared to go online. (Matthew Staver/Bloomberg) comments If you want to tell the Nova Scotia government your thoughts on pot — how it should be sold, how old you should be to buy it, or where to legally consume it — you'll have to go online or be home when a pollster comes calling. Nova Scotia's public consultation process on legalized marijuana, rolling out later this fall, will be three-pronged approach that won't include public meetings, Justice Minister Mark Furey told CBC News. "There'll be an online component so Nova Scotians can have input," he said, speaking Wednesday outside the legislative chamber at Province House. "There'll be a public opinion telephone poll and there will be continued discussion with stakeholders." Legal age for marijuana use should be 21, say top public health officials Stakeholders include "law enforcement, the legal community, the general public at large, special interest groups, and health care," said Furey, who is a retired RCMP officer. Businesses currently selling marijuana or related products would have an "opportunity" to provide input, he said, but the province hasn't reached out to get it. "We haven't had any direct conversation with them at this point." Online access Furey said he expects that most opinions would likely be gathered online. "That will afford every Nova Scotian the opportunity to provide input, and the public opinion telephone polling will capture another element or component of Nova Scotians." Justice Minister Mark Furey says Nova Scotia's public consultation process will be three-pronged approach that won't include public meetings. (CBC) But the province's Official Opposition said those options fall short, calling for public meetings as part of the process. "There's many Nova Scotians without access to … basic internet service," said PC MLA Elizabeth Smith-McCrossin, noting that reliable connectivity is an issue in parts of her riding of Cumberland North. "So to have that as the only form of public consultation isn't good enough." Furey said there are a number of ways Nova Scotians can get online, such as using public computers at their local libraries, fire halls and community centres. Atlantic-wide approach needed The government has also been talking to the other Atlantic provinces, looking for common ground on the issue. That, too, needed to be considered in developing a policy on pot, Furey said. "We have taken the position that the best approach is a regional approach," he said. "We don't want to get into a cross-border issue of shopping for legal cannabis." Marijuana industry uses cross-border beer case to argue against provincial monopolies What Nova Scotia's political leaders are saying about regulating marijuana The plan is to let the public know "over the next few weeks" how they can let their voices be heard, Furey said. "There are different opinions and views on age and the retail model and how and where it should be consumed. I think that input is important and certainly valuable for me to be aware of." About the Author Jean Laroche Reporter Jean Laroche has been a CBC reporter for 32 years. He's been covering Nova Scotia politics since 1995 and has been at Province House longer than any sitting member. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Legal age for marijuana use should be 21, say top public health officials Pot-infused cuisine will be the next big trend, food expert predicts Marijuana industry uses cross-border beer case to argue against provincial monopolies What Nova Scotia's political leaders are saying about regulating marijuana Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now