Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Troy Cooper will be Saskatoon's first Métis police chief Saskatoon's Board of Police Commissioners has hired Troy Cooper, a veteran officer from Prince Albert, to take over as the city's new chief of police. Social Sharing After 31 years of policing in Prince Albert, Cooper takes over in Saskatoon next month CBC News · Posted: Jan 17, 2018 9:53 AM CT | Last Updated: January 18, 2018 Prince Albert Police Chief Troy Cooper is moving to Saskatoon. (CBC) comments Calling Saskatoon "the gold standard for policing in Canada," Troy Cooper was welcomed Wednesday as Saskatoon's new police chief. Originally from Big River, Sask., Cooper — who will be officially sworn in next month — will also be the first ?Métis person to lead the Saskatoon Police Service. "When you look at me you can see I've gone through life as a Caucasian male, so the [Métis] status is something I rarely talk about publicly," Cooper told reporters Wednesday. "There's been so many lived experiences of people who are of Métis descent and Indigenous people that I haven't shared." Cooper said he has rarely spoken about his background during the 31 years he spent as a Prince Albert, Sask., police officer. "Growing up in the north and policing in Prince Albert has exposed me to culture," Cooper said. "I participated in ceremonies, I've tried to understand and learn culture, and I've been exposed to family connections to culture." Cooper was hired based on his extensive policing experience, and his strength in building relationships, said Darlene Brander, who chairs Saskatoon's police commission. "We wanted a police chief who focuses on meaningful connections with people in the community," she said. "Relationship building is a day in, day out core part of their job." City still leads in Crime Severity Index Former police Chief Clive Weighill announced his retirement in June after leading the Saskatoon Police Service for 11 years.  Saskatoon Police Chief Clive Weighill retires Saskatoon's next police chief should focus on crime prevention: mayor Deputy chief of operations Mark Chatterbok has served as the city's interim chief since October. Cooper takes over a police force once best known across Canada for notorious "Starlight Tours." On Nov. 25, 1990, Neil Stonechild froze to death in a field on the northwest outskirts of Saskatoon. Construction workers later found his body. Two construction workers found Neil Stonechild's frozen body in a field on the city's northwest outskirts. (CBC) A judicial inquiry later ruled police botched the investigation because they either knew or suspected fellow officers were involved. Officers Larry Hartwig and Brad Senger were fired but never criminally charged. In 2001, two Saskatoon police officers were sentenced to eight months in jail for unlawful confinement after driving an intoxicated Darrell Night to a power plant at the city limits. CBC News In Depth: Starlight Tours Former Saskatoon cops appeal conviction for leaving aboriginal man out in cold On a January night in 2000, as temperatures dipped to –22 C, Night walked back to the city wearing only light clothing, including a T-shirt and denim jacket. Rodney Naistus and Lawrence Wegner both froze to death near Saskatoon's Queen Elizabeth power plant within a week of each other later that same month. Subsequent coroner's inquests heard from witnesses who claimed they saw both Naistus and Wegner interacting with police before their deaths. The juries at those inquests were unable to determine the circumstances around the deaths, but both made numerous recommendations aimed at improving police procedures and reporting. Saskatoon police chief says drop-offs happened 'more than once' Saskatoon police removed 'starlight tours' section from Wikipedia, student says As well, Saskatoon continues to lead the country in the national Crime Severity Index. In 2016, Saskatoon ranked second in the country behind Regina.  Mayor Charlie Clark said the city made strides under Weighill, but wanted to focus on preventing crime rather than spending all the force's energy on enforcement. "I'm very pleased and honoured and excited to welcome Troy Cooper," Clark said Wednesday as he shook Cooper's hand. "Help make this city a successful, healthy, equal city with opportunities for everyone and safe streets for our community." Sask. has the highest provincial crime rate in Canada – and the most severe crimes, too Cooper said policing in Prince Albert has given him the background to lead Saskatoon's police force.  "They have very similar challenges around crime trends and business practices," Cooper said of the two cities. One of his first tasks will be implementing the findings of an audit of the Saskatoon Police Service, commissioned by the police board. "Drugs are driving things like property crime, gang involvement, weapons calls, so we need to spend our limited resources on the root causes of those crimes, which would be drug trafficking and chronic offenders," said Cooper. Clarifications This story has been updated to include additional information about the men involved in the "Starlight Tours." Jan 31, 2018 5:47 PM CT CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now