Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Trudeau says pot purchasers are funding gangs, organized crime and must be charged Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says Canadians who buy pot are funding gangs and organized crime and will continue to be charged until marijuana is legal. Social Sharing Liberal government looks at options to erase criminal records for possessing pot, but not until it's legal Kathleen Harris · CBC News · Posted: Jan 12, 2018 11:39 AM ET | Last Updated: January 12, 2018 As Canada moves to legalize cannabis, the Liberal government is looking at ways to deal with people who have criminal records for possessing the drug. (Henry Romero/Reuters) comments Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says Canadians who buy pot are funding gangs and organized crime and will continue to be charged until marijuana is legal. The Liberal government is looking at ways to deal with criminal records for possessing pot, but Trudeau said there will be no amnesty until after cannabis is legalized and controlled in July. "Certainly we know the current legislation is hurting Canadians and criminalizing Canadians who perhaps shouldn't be. But that is an engagement we will take once we have a legalized and controlled regime in place — not before," he told reporters after a two-day cabinet retreat in London, Ont. Pot bill clears the House Ontario unveils marijuana retail plan Trudeau said the government's plan for marijuana is "fundamentally" about public health and safety, and until the critical regulatory and security regimes are in place it will be treated as an illegal product. "We recognize that anyone who is currently purchasing marijuana is participating in illegal activity that is funding criminal organizations and street gangs, and therefore we do not want to encourage, in any way, people to engage in that behaviour until the law has changed," he said. Trudeau on cannabis amnesty Politics3 years ago 0:25Prime Minister Justin Trudeau comments on the possibility of an amnesty for people convicted of minor offenses related to cannabis possession. 0:25 "Once the law is changed, we will of course reflect on fairness in a way that is responsible moving forward." The bill passed the House of Commons in November and is now in the Senate.  Possible pardons on the way Earlier today, Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale confirmed officials are examining "all the legal implications for possible pardons, or record suspensions, for criminal records for cannabis. But he would not say how the government is likely to proceed. "We're in the midst of a major change here. I know there is a real anxiety for a bit of a play-by-play commentary, but I think the responsible thing is to do the analysis, see where the unfairnesses are and take the appropriate steps to correct those problem," he told reporters in London, Ont., where the Liberal cabinet is holding a winter retreat. "But we need to do it in an orderly way." Pot will be tax-free on reserve 39% of cannabis smokers drive stoned A potential amnesty program was first reported in La Presse.  Critics have pushed for a pardon, or record suspension, program for simple possession of cannabis, and say people should not be criminally charged in the period before the government brings its legalization plan into force. 'Existing law remains' While acknowledging "unfairnesses," Goodale said criminal charges and prosecutions must continue until the law formally changes. The government is aiming to legalize cannabis by July. "We're moving in an orderly fashion to change the law appropriately and get the job done. In the meantime, the existing law remains and people need to obey that law." Goodale said the change represents a "significant transformational change in the Canadian law." He said any legal moves to address criminal records would not take place until after the laws are in force. Cannabis could be legal in Canada by July. (Matt Kwong/CBC) NDP health critic Don Davies said thousands of Canadians continue to get arrested, charged and convicted for something that will soon be legal, at a time when the justice system remains clogged and under-resourced. 'Devastating' consequences "Parliament is well aware of the devastating consequences of carrying criminal convictions, especially for young people, Indigenous and marginalized Canadians," he told CBC News in a statement. "It is illogical and unjust to continue this policy on the eve of legalization." Davies said the NDP proposed amendments to the pot legalization bill that would provide an expedited pardon process for Canadians carrying convictions for cannabis offences that no longer exist, but they were rejected. "We once again call on the Trudeau government to create a process to pardon and expunge the criminal records of Canadians with cannabis offences," he said. Supporting rehabilitation, crime prevention Scott Bardsley, a spokesperson for Goodale, said anyone convicted of simple possession of up to 30 grams can apply for a record suspension through the Parole Board of Canada, five years after the sentence is completed.  The government is now in the process of reforming the pardons system based on "evidence-based criminal justice policies" that support rehabilitation and crime prevention. He acknowledged pardons can be a significant barrier to employment, because some positions require criminal record checks. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories The rush to legalize marijuana is a risk to public health, says drug policy expert No marijuana shops anytime soon, says chief of dry reserve given pot permit by province Status First Nations to remain tax exempt on marijuana sales on reserve land Municipalities use poll to push province for pot revenue Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now