Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Under-reporting credentials not the same as being overqualified, medical governing body says As Cape Breton suffers a critical shortage of family doctors, many people are still wondering why Glace Bay practitioner Dr. Mohsen Yavari's licence was revoked earlier this year. Social Sharing College registrar says Glace Bay doctor disciplined because family medicine is its own specialty Peggy MacDonald · CBC News · Posted: Jul 15, 2016 5:04 PM AT | Last Updated: July 15, 2016 The Newfoundland and Labrador College of Physicians and Surgeons established an adjudication tribunal to hear complaints made against Dr. Ikechukwu (Steven) Madu. (iStockphoto) As Cape Breton suffers a critical shortage of family doctors, many people are still wondering why Glace Bay practitioner Dr. Mohsen Yavari's licence was revoked earlier this year. The Nova Scotia College of Physicians and Surgeons revealed this week that Yavari had admitted to lying when he applied to a licensing program admitting foreign-trained, experienced family doctors. He falsely claimed he had a family medicine background. Glace Bay doctor loses licence for under-reporting his credentials Yavari had been practising in Glace Bay for about two years and had a full caseload of patients when he was found out and called to account. His patients were left without primary care as Yavari was first suspended from practice during an investigation and later lost his licence. Misperception College registrar Dr. Gus Grant says people's confusion about the Yavari situation is based on an "old and ill-informed" perception that family doctors are simply doctors who did not chose a more specialized field of medicine. "Family medicine as a specialty unto itself has specific competencies that are required," Grant told Mainstreet Cape Breton. "We would certainly not let a psychiatrist perform surgery and we would not let a surgeon perform psychiatry and quite frankly, it would offend the rank and file of family doctors to say that this doctor, Yavari, or others are over-qualified to practice family medicine." Grant says another, more qualified doctor may have been denied a Nova Scotia licence because Yavari got one under false pretenses. Yavari worked as an emergency physician in Dubai for six years before coming to Canada. Reports that he was also a surgeon were investigated; Yavari denied it, and the college did not substantiate the claim. Eligible to reapply In its disciplinary decision, the college backdated Yavari's licence revocation to the date of his suspension in February, and said he would be eligible to reapply for a licence to practice family medicine in four months. That time has now elapsed. Ironically, the experience he gained while practising in Glace Bay may now make Yavari a legitimate candidate for licensure. "The College will review his work experience, now, and his performance as a physician since being licensed, and [he] will be eligible to apply as a family physician, and in all likelihood, that is what will happen," said Grant.  Read the disciplinary decision of the N.S. College of Physicians and Surgeons regarding Dr. Mohsen Yavari With files from Mainstreet Cape Breton CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now