Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia·GreenLit Up in the air: B.C. puts off decision on cannabis lounges The province has set rules on where smoking or vaping cannabis will be prohibited, but it has yet to make a decision on whether it will license marijuana consumption lounges. Social Sharing Consumption spaces operate in haze between promise of legal marijuana and regulatory regime Megan Thomas · CBC News · Posted: Mar 09, 2018 6:00 AM PT | Last Updated: March 9, 2018 Ted Smith founded the Victoria Cannabis Buyers' Club in 1996. (Megan Thomas/CBC) comments They call it "The Box". Inside the front door of the Victoria Cannabis Buyers' Club, just a few steps past the display cases full of marijuana products, there's a room where people smoke and vape marijuana. "It seemed unfair to provide a source for cannabis but then kick people out onto the street to use it," said Ted Smith, who founded the compassion club, one of the oldest in the country, in 1996. This smoking room is, and always has been, illegal. Smith hopes that will change with the legalization of marijuana — but that's still very much up in the air. This story is part of Greenlit, a CBC Vancouver series exploring ways the legalization of marijuana will affect B.C. Other stories in the series include: GREENLITALR advocates aim to ban pot farms on B.C.'s fertile land GreenlitWomen in weed: charting change for male-dominated cannabis culture Restrictions abound In preparation for the federal government's legalization of non-medical cannabis later this year, the province has set some rules on where smoking or vaping cannabis won't be allowed. Those areas include beaches, parks, playgrounds, bus stops and patios. Smoking marijuana inside vehicles is out, for obvious reasons. B.C. unveils pot plans: marijuana to be sold in standalone government stores, separate from liquor Landlords and strata councils will also able to restrict cannabis smoking, meaning consumption at home may not be an option for those who don't own their own place or those who live with shared walls. According to the province, the focus of the restrictions is to ensure non-medical cannabis is consumed in a way that protects young people, keeps the roads safe and keeps the criminal element out. Question of where But Smith says it leaves him to wonder where people in B.C. will be able to consume the cannabis they legally buy. In his mind, designated cannabis lounges are the answer. "If they don't want people smoking in the parks and in the streets and in other public places, then they should allow us to have commercial, or in this case non-profit, venues were we can quietly consume our herb," he said. That's not an opinion shared by the health authority for Vancouver Island. It has recommended against consumption spaces over concerns about second-hand smoke and the potential health impacts of vaping. Ted Smith prepares a joint at the Victoria Cannabis Buyers Club. (Megan Thomas/CBC) But the City of Victoria says the idea is worth consideration. During the province's public consultation period for cannabis regulation, it urged officials to consider a licensing regime for lounges. City councillor Jeremy Loveday says he would like to see cannabis consumption spaces for medical marijuana in particular, but he's not adverse to spaces for recreational consumption, as long as safety concerns such as ventilation are addressed. "People who are living in apartment buildings, they will not be allowed to consume in their space, in their home," he said. "For those people, especially the ones who are using it for medicinal reasons, they should have a place to use their medicine." Illegal cannabis lounges, such as this one in Victoria called Terp City, have opened in several B.C. communities. (Megan Thomas/CBC) For now, the province is taking a wait-and-see approach. Officials say they are focused on creating a safe and responsible retail cannabis sector. Then, they will consider the issue of consumption lounges. Other jurisdictions have also taken their time on the issue. Even though marijuana has been legal in Colorado for years, the first cannabis lounge in Denver just recently received a licence to operate. Meanwhile, Ontario has just wrapped up public consultation on the issue. Ontario considers allowing cannabis lounges as legalization deadline looms But cannabis entrepreneurs in B.C. are charging ahead anyway. A number of consumption lounges have popped up in several different cities and communities. Just like illegal marijuana dispensaries, many are operating in the haze between the announcement of legal marijuana and the actual changes to the law. Crackdown Despite support for a potential licensing regime, Victoria has been trying to crack down on the illegal spaces. The city has levied more than $45,000 in fines against two commercial lounges in the city. One has since shut down, but the other remains open. None of the fines have been paid. Victoria Cannabis Buyers' Club says most people don't even know it has a cannabis smoking room, even though it has provided a consumption space for years. (Megan Thomas/CBC) Amid the surge of upstart marijuana dispensaries in the city, the Victoria Cannabis Buyers' Club has earned the respect of city officials for its long history of quietly helping people access marijuana for their medical conditions. Enforcement officials have largely left the operation alone, smoking room and all, Smith says. But he does wonder if legalization will actually hurt the long-running compassion club. If lounge spaces don't become legal, he worries his smoking room will get caught up in renewed enforcement against such spaces. "We are concerned that they may attempt to shut us down." Do you have a question about what will change in our province when pot becomes legal? Email us your story idea at cbcnewsvancouver@cbc.ca. About the Author Megan Thomas Reporter Megan Thomas is a reporter for CBC in Victoria, B.C. She covers stories from around Vancouver Island and the Sunshine Coast. Follow her on Twitter @meganTcbc. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories GREENLIT ALR advocates aim to ban pot farms on B.C.'s fertile land Greenlit Women in weed: charting change for male-dominated cannabis culture Ontario considers allowing cannabis lounges as legalization deadline looms The ban on cannabis in Canada is ending — do you know how it started? Ottawa health unit's pot proposals under fire Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now