Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News PEI Waste water treatment plant could kill lobster larvae, says PEIFA A planned waste water treatment plant in Pictou, N.S. could be detrimental to lobsters and other wildlife in the Northumberland Strait, says the P.E.I. Fishermen’s Association. Social Sharing Northern Pulp says it's been dumping effluent for 50 years, says new plant will be better Malcolm Campbell · CBC News · Posted: Nov 17, 2017 10:40 AM AT | Last Updated: November 17, 2017 The PEIFA attended a meeting on Nov. 5 in Nova Scotia to hear the plans for replacing the Boat Harbour facility. (Jeorge Sadi/CBC) A new waste water treatment plant in Pictou, N.S. could be detrimental to lobsters and other wildlife in the Northumberland Strait, says the P.E.I. Fishermen's Association. Northern Pulp hasn't made a formal proposal to replace its current treatment facility at Boat Harbour, but the Nova Scotia government has said that the existing facility must close by January 2020. Representatives from three local P.E.I. fishermen's associations, as well as the PEIFA and fishermen's associations from Nova Scotia, attended a meeting on Nov. 5 to hear from government officials about the plans for Northern Pulp's new facility. Fishermen, politicians discuss proposed Boat Harbour treatment facility Northern Pulp submits plans to replace notorious Boat Harbour facility Melanie Giffin, quality and industry program planner for PEIFA, was at the closed meeting and said there were about 75 concerned fishermen there. "I definitely feel like the vibe of the meeting was quite a bit of frustration over the proposed changes," she said. "At this point we don't know all the risks … we don't have all of the information." New facility According to Kathy Cloutier, director of communications at Paper Excellence, the company that runs Northern Pulp, the new facility would use an activated sludge treatment system. This process would involve aerating the waste water then treating it, before sending it into the Northumberland Strait. "The new outfall is designed to meet the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment guidelines for effluent discharges," she said in an email to CBC. I don't know exactly how much of an effect it will have but any lobster larvae in the area with that freshwater floating will not survive.- Melanie Giffin Cloutier also said the new system will be less harmful to the environment than the current one. "Treated effluent has been flowing through Boat Harbour and into the Northumberland Strait for over 50 years. The new treatment facility … will reduce the impact on the Strait." Giffin said the current system may have allowed treated effluent into the Strait, but now that it will be pumped out further into the waterway it "just brings up more concern, more possibility for it to flow, instead of along the coastline, but out into the Strait itself." 'They can't survive' Giffin raised concerns that introducing freshwater into the Strait could be a danger to lobsters. She said when lobsters release their eggs, they float for upwards of a month mostly on the surface of the water. Melanie Giffin, quality and industry program planner for the PEIFA, says the organization is worried about detrimental effects a wastewater treatment plant in Nova Scotia could have on the Northumberland Strait. (Malcolm Campbell/CBC) "That's the same place the fresh water will be, so it basically replaces the saltwater in that area with just fresh water on the top and the lobsters need salt. They're a saltwater species. They can't survive in fresh water," Giffin said. "I don't know exactly how much of an effect it will have but any lobster larvae in the area with that freshwater floating will not survive." Cloutier said the company has not yet entered the design phase for the new plant so it doesn't know the volume of the water that would enter the Strait. 'Ongoing concern' The PEIFA is hoping the new treatment plant will be built inland. "There are other waste water treatment facilities that are done 100 per cent on land where the effluent isn't released into water," Giffin said. The organization has also been in contact with the Northumberland Fishermen's Association, the Maritime Fishermen's Union and Nova Scotia Fleet Planning Board to figure out their best course of action. "It's an ongoing concern that the PEIFA is going to be paying close attention to," Giffin said. MORE P.E.I. NEWS | Charlottetown-Parkdale candidates address youth forum MORE P.E.I. NEWS | Marriage in a foreign land: Booklet to outline family law for newcomers Clarifications An earlier version of this story said Northern Pulp has been told by the Nova Scotia government to have the new plant up and running by 2020 when in fact the Nova Scotia government has set a deadline to close the existing treatment facility at Boat Harbour by January 2020. Feb 17, 2018 5:38 PM AT CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Fishermen, politicians discuss proposed Boat Harbour treatment facility Northern Pulp submits plans to replace notorious Boat Harbour facility Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now