Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia Weed experts wanted: National Access Cannabis looks to expand their team The job posting has only been up for six days but the folks at the National Access Cannabis location on Spring Garden Road in Halifax are swamped with applications for their cannabis information specialist position. Social Sharing What is a cannabis information specialist and how can I become one? Jennifer Kay Lee · CBC News · Posted: Apr 09, 2017 8:00 AM AT | Last Updated: April 10, 2017 National Access Cannabis in Halifax is seeking a cannabis information specialist with a likely starting wage of around $15 an hour. (Darren Calabrese/Canadian Press) The job posting has only been up for six days but the folks at the National Access Cannabis location on Spring Garden Road in Halifax are swamped with applications for their cannabis information specialist position. "It's going to be hard to choose just one person," said Diandra Phipps, manager for the location, where almost 50 job applications have been sent. National Access Cannabis is a health-care service provider that helps patients legally access medical cannabis through a licensed producer. The corporation has three other locations in Ontario and British Columbia. How high will the price of legal pot be? Colin Cochrane, a cannabis information specialist in Halifax, said the job requires a lot of patience and awareness. "We deal with anxiety, depression, veterans with severe PTSD, cancer patients," said Cochrane. The medical marijuana industry is much more than just getting people high. Cochrane said you need to understand the plant's medical properties, how it responds in the body and how it can treat many ailments. "They aren't just here to pick up the product and smoke it," said managing director Kenny Lord. "They are here for medical reasons." Experts wanted Lord said candidates should have a basic understanding of medical-cannabis use when applying, but patient care is the most important part of the job. "It's a little bit more zeroed in on client care," said Lord. "Their job will range from a number of emotional roller coasters, so we need some strong, confident individuals." National Access Cannabis works to ensure patients receive the proper strain of cannabis and are shown the different means of consumption. Lord said not everyone responds to medical cannabis the same way, so personalized care tailors cannabis use to the individual needs of the patient. Salaries for the position will be determined based on the individual's qualifications, but Lord said it will probably start as a $15 hourly wage. Phipps said applicants have come from a wide variety of backgrounds. "We have people [applying] with nurse designations and medical training all the way down to someone who is looking to work their way up in the industry," said Phipps. The successful applicant should be ready to handle busy days. Lord said they have helped register over 600 patients in Atlantic Canada since they opened in November. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis How high will the price of legal pot be? Concerns about accidental child poisonings grow as pot legalization looms Marijuana legalization could leave provinces responsible for pot rules Q&A Former premier Darrell Dexter now a lobbyist for marijuana industry Drugalyzers hit the streets of Halifax to test for drugged drivers Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now