Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon 'We're all very worried': Sask. police chiefs wait for answers about impaired driving and marijuana The Saskatchewan Association of Chiefs of Police is pushing for more tools and research to prepare for the legalization of marijuana in 2018, but the results of drug-screen testing for drivers in this province are yet to be released. Social Sharing Officers concerned about drug-impaired driving enforcement, sales, youth education Alicia Bridges · CBC News · Posted: Mar 29, 2017 1:09 PM CT | Last Updated: March 29, 2017 Saskatchewan police chiefs say they need more equipment, tools and training to enforce drug-impaired driving laws when marijuana is legalized. (Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press) The Saskatchewan Association of Chiefs of Police is pushing for more tools and research to prepare for the legalization of marijuana in 2018. "We're all very worried about it,"  said association president and Weyburn Police Chief Marlo Pritchard. "In Saskatchewan, we are already number one with use of alcohol — impaired driving. "And now we are adding another intoxicant." Liberals to announce marijuana will be legal by July 1, 2018 North Battleford RCMP testing drug-screening devices on drivers Sask. government perturbed at feds' 'patchwork' pot proposal The Liberal government said last week it would announce legislation to legalize marijuana in Canada by July 1, 2018. It will be up to the provinces to decide how marijuana is distributed and sold, a decision that has drawn criticism from Premier Brad Wall, who also raised public safety concerns about drug-impaired driving. North Battleford test results yet to be released In December, the North Battleford RCMP detachment started testing two types of devices to screen a driver's saliva for cannabis, cocaine, methamphetamine or opioids. It was one of a handful of RCMP jurisdictions that tested the devices as part of a federal program led by the Ministry of Public Safety.  We need some real, good evidentiary-based tools and training for our officers so we can keep our streets and roadways safe.- Regina Police Chief Evan Bray The ministry said the results of the pilot project will be drafted in the coming weeks before being released to the public. "The final report will provide greater details on how the devices work in the context of Canadian climate and law enforcement practices, and will also provide information to inform the standard operating procedures and training provisions for device use," the ministry said in an emailed statement. Saliva testing would need legislative change According to Pritchard, the association of chiefs of police is also currently in the dark about the test's results. Pot enforcement won't change until marijuana is legalized, says Regina police chief Pot legalization: What will it mean for schools? He worries that tools such as saliva testing will require legislative changes before they can be used as an enforcement tool. "We'll wait and see what the legislation looks like, but there's a number of Criminal Code amendments that need to, or at least I believe, need to be made to give us the powers to detect and combat that," he said. Saskatchewan police services currently have dedicated officers trained as "drug recognition experts" who can identify drug impairment at the roadside.  Regina Police Chief Evan Bray says the new legislation should coincide with better youth education and more tools and training for police. (CBC) More tools needed: Regina chief Regina Police Chief Evan Bray said it's a "specialized field", and the only way that police can bring a drug-impaired driving case to the courts. He wants to see any strategy focus on three areas: tools and training to deal with drug-impaired driving, an education strategy for young people and the regulation of sales and distribution. Highlights from the federal marijuana task force report Pot task force recommends legal cannabis sales be limited to users 18 and over "Those types of [saliva-screening] devices have not yet been approved on a national level, so we rely on basically our frontline officers being experts on detecting whether or not someone is displaying signs of whether they've used drugs before they got behind the wheel of the vehicle," said Bray. "We need some real, good evidentiary-based tools and training for our officers so we can keep our streets and roadways safe." Bray said the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police has asked the federal government for more information about how the change could impact drug-impaired driving frequency and enforcement. Considering 'lessons learned' in other countries Although Bray said police did not yet have answers to those questions, he is confident those strategies will be developed. In the meantime, Saskatchewan police have been looking for answers from other countries where marijuana has already been legalized. Bray said that will help to identify potential problems with drug-impaired driving and regulation. "Those types of things are lessons learned from other jurisdictions and things that we in the policing community see that we need to get a handle on prior to this being legalized, so that we hit the ground running and we know what the rules are and what they aren't," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now