Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba·Video What do Winnipeggers know about reconciliation? CBC News finds out When CBC reporters asked Winnipeggers in an informal survey what they know about reconciliation, only about one in three said they were aware of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission and residential schools. Social Sharing Majority in informal survey said they had not heard of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission CBC News · Posted: Mar 19, 2018 10:04 PM CT | Last Updated: March 20, 2018 Lenard Monkman interviews Winnipeggers at Kildonan Place Monday. (CBC News) When CBC reporters asked Winnipeggers in an informal survey what they know about reconciliation, only about one in three said they were aware of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission and residential schools. CBC's Jill Coubrough and Lenard Monkman visited four locations across the city Monday, including the Forks, Polo Park, Kildonan Place and outside Winnipeg Square and asked 80 people what they knew about reconciliation in light of the launch of Beyond 94, an interactive tool monitoring the TRC's 94 calls to action. They asked three basic questions:  What do you know about the Truth and Reconciliation Commission?  What is reconciliation? What does it mean to you?  What role do individuals and government have in achieving reconciliation?  CBC found young adults and seniors had the most knowledge about residential schools, the TRC's role and recommendations, while the majority of newcomers and those age 30 to 60 admitted to knowing little or nothing at all. Watch below. What do Winnipeggers know about reconciliation? CBC News Manitoba3 years ago 3:39CBC's Jill Coubrough and Lenard Monkman visited four locations across the city Monday, including the Forks, Polo Park, Kildonan Place and outside Winnipeg Square and asked 80 people what they knew about reconciliation in light of the launch of Beyond 94, an interactive tool monitoring the TRC's 94 calls to action. 3:39 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Beyond 94: Where is Canada at with reconciliation? Opinion What reconciliation feels like to people 'locked in the bathroom' for a century In Depth Reconciliation amid racism: Is it possible on the Prairies? Opinion Action and accountability are what's needed for reconciliation Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now