Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Williams Lake could be the 'cannabis capital' of B.C., says city councillor A Williams Lake city councillor thinks his city is the perfect spot for marijuana production — and many seem to agree. Social Sharing Politicians vote to encourage marijuana companies to set up facilities in B.C.'s central Interior Courtney Dickson · CBC News · Posted: Jan 29, 2018 3:15 PM PT | Last Updated: January 29, 2018 Williams Lake city councillor Scott Nelson already has some properties in mind for new marijuana production companies. (CBC) Local politicians in Williams Lake, B.C., want the Interior city to become a hub for marijuana production in anticipation of cannabis legalization this summer. Council voted unanimously last week to encourage regulated marijuana production in the hope of creating new jobs. "Williams Lake has an abundance of key industrial land that would be perfect for growing cannabis in a legalized manner," said city councillor Scott Nelson. "We might as well take part in it and see if we can reap some benefits for our community and our region, and see if we can become the cannabis capital here in British Columbia." Kamloops amends business licence and zoning bylaws ahead of marijuana legalization Williams Lake is known for lumber, mining and agriculture, but Nelson said adding cannabis could improve the job market. "The huge spinoff in terms of scientific research, microbiology, adding courses to our university, it just has an abundance of creating a much better and diverse economy in Williams Lake," he said. Canadian marijuana companies search for workers ahead of legalization Canada's largest pot grower plans to double capacity with B.C. greenhouses Nelson expects that if several business set up shop in the Cariboo city of 11,000, hundreds of new positions could open up. Positive feedback Since the motion was passed, Nelson said he's heard nothing but positive feedback from residents.  After hearing CBC's interview with Nelson on Daybreak Kamloops, Shane Doddridge, who lives in Springhouse, 26 km south of Williams Lake, called to express his excitement about the motion. "I think it's an awesome idea to diversify the economy here," Doddridge said. "This may be a good opportunity for growth and bring in some more young people. "We're a relatively stagnant economy, extractive industries aren't expanding and we need to look more toward value-added products and manufacturing of we want to thrive into the future," he said.  These 3 jobseekers want to work in the cannabis industry Four investors will be in Williams Lake this week to check out the city's agricultural potential for a cannabis business. Nelson said while the entire area has great potential for cannabis production, he has one site in mind that already had a 100,000 square foot facility on the property. With files from Daybreak Kamloops For more stories from Kamloops and the surrounding area, follow CBC Kamloops on Facebook and Twitter, and tune in to Daybreak Kamloops weekday mornings, 6-8:30 a.m. PT.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now