Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Winnipeg cannabis producer's stock sales will allow creation of '300 to 500' jobs, CEO says Hundreds of jobs will be created at Winnipeg medical marijuana producer Delta 9 as it becomes a publicly traded company on the TSX Venture stock exchange, president and CEO John Arbuthnot says. Social Sharing 'We have a full spectrum of products right now, about 30 different varieties of cannabis under production' Lara Schroeder · CBC News · Posted: Oct 31, 2017 4:14 PM CT | Last Updated: October 31, 2017 Delta 9 president and CEO John Arbuthnot says his firm will create 300 to 500 jobs after it begins selling stock on the TSX Venture Exchange. (Travis Golby/CBC) Hundreds of jobs will be created at Winnipeg medical marijuana producer Delta 9 as it becomes a publicly traded company on the TSX Venture stock exchange, president and CEO John Arbuthnot says. "We are planning to create between 300 and 500 jobs in our production facility in Winnipeg over the next two years," Arbuthnot said Tuesday. Delta 9, after a merger with SVT Capital, will be listed on the TSX Venture Exchange in the next few days, he said. Delta 9, Manitoba medical marijuana facility, offers glimpse inside Manitoba's only licensed medical marijuana producer eyes storefront to serve recreational market Cannabis industry to province: Make room for made-in-Manitoba weed The money raised on the stock market will allow Delta 9 to expand from the 15,000 square feet of production space it currently uses to fill its entirely 80,000 square foot facility. "We are looking to expand out our production square footage fairly substantially over the next number of years, taking our number of kilograms of annualized production from the current 1,000 kilos per year up to 17,000 kilos per year," Arbuthnot said. The expansion allows the company to gear up production as cannabis becomes legal for recreational use. "We're currently servicing a little over 2,000 registered medical patients across the country," Arbuthnot said. "We are actually seeing very rapid growth in just our medical patient book. We are also of course looking forward to legalization and the potential to service a much larger percentage of the Canadian population." The entire operation started as a business school project, in which Arbuthnot had to do a feasibility study for a new business in a new sector. "I brought the business plan to my father, and my how we've run with it since then," Arbuthnot said. Provincial justice ministers want answers on marijuana legalization Organized crime will get edge on legalized pot, Manitoba premier says The company received a licence to grow medical cannabis from Health Canada in December 2013 and a licence to distribute in April 2014. It now operates a retail cannabis clinic on River Avenue in Osborne Village. But the burning question may be how good the Delta 9 product is. "We have a full spectrum of products right now, about 30 different varieties of cannabis under production," Arbuthnot said. "We are very confident in the quality of our product." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Organized crime will get edge on legalized pot, Manitoba premier says Provincial justice ministers want answers on marijuana legalization Cannabis industry to province: Make room for made-in-Manitoba weed Manitoba's only licensed medical marijuana producer eyes storefront to serve recreational market Delta 9, Manitoba medical marijuana facility, offers glimpse inside Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now