Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatchewan With legal pot looming, Sask. to get tough on drug-impaired drivers While the government of Saskatchewan has not yet finalized its plan for the sale and distribution of marijuana, it is today declaring its stance on drug-impaired driving. Social Sharing 'Government sending clear message' with new rules, says minister responsible Danny Kerslake · CBC News · Posted: Nov 28, 2017 1:33 PM CT | Last Updated: November 28, 2017 The Saskatchewan government introduced new legislation today as it gets ready for the legalization of marijuana. The government says people should not get behind the wheel if they've been using drugs. (CBC) While the government of Saskatchewan has not yet finalized its plan for the sale and distribution of marijuana, it is today declaring its stance on drug-impaired driving. Driving impaired by drugs or alcohol is a bad idea, with serious consequences.- Joe Hargrave  New legislation introduced Tuesday in the provincial legislature comes with a warning from the government that it will take a zero-tolerance stand on drug-impaired driving.   "In Saskatchewan it is currently and will continue to be illegal to drive while impaired whether by drugs or alcohol," said Joe Hargrave, the minister responsible for SGI, in a news release. "That is not changing, even when personal cannabis use becomes legal in July." The legislation would result in immediate suspension of a driver's licence after being charged with one of the three new Criminal Code charges under Bill C-46. Mandatory breath tests for booze won't violate rights, justice minister says The driver's vehicle would also be seized for 30 days after a charge — 60 days if the driver is also impaired by alcohol and has a blood alcohol concentration over .16. Under the new legislation, a conviction for driving while impaired by cannabis would bring a driving suspension of one to five years and penalties ranging from $1,250 to $2,500 under SGI's Safe Driver Recognition program. "If somebody's impaired, I don't care if they're impaired by prescription drugs, by illegal drugs or legal drugs cannabis whatever. Impaired driving is impaired driving and we cannot have impaired drivers on the road." Hargrave said police do not currently have enough tools at their disposal to get convictions for drug-impaired driving, he said the new roadside tests should change that. “In Saskatchewan it is currently and will continue to be illegal to drive while impaired whether by drugs or alcohol,” says Joe Hargrave, the minister responsible for SGI. (Matthew Howard/CBC) Zero tolerance The changes clear the way for new federal laws on drug-impaired driving expected soon. Federal marijuana legislation clears House of Commons, headed for the Senate From the provincial government's perspective, zero tolerance means that people should not drive with any level of marijuana in their system that is detectable by a federally-approved screening device. It is expected that once the federal Bill C-46 is in place, police here will have access to a roadside device that will be able to test saliva for marijuana use.   Federal government calls roadside drug-test device trial a success despite cold weather issues What the people want "Our government is sending a clear message, while cannabis may soon be legal, driving under the influence is illegal, dangerous to public safety, and will be dealt with harshly," Hargrave said.  "Bottom line – driving impaired by drugs or alcohol is a bad idea, with serious consequences." New Sask. survey says government-run marijuana stores popular idea Penalties for driving under the influence of drugs (not just marijuana) will be similar to those faced with changes of driving under the influence of alcohol. The provincial government suggested that this is what people in Saskatchewan demanded when they completed the recent cannabis survey. Two-thirds of the people who took the survey agreed the same penalties should apply, with a majority also saying they wanted a zero tolerance stance on drug-impaired driving.   MADD happy with changes MADD Canada's Saskatchewan chapter says it has been discussing this type of legislation with the Ministry of Justice and SGI since the summer. "We're really happy to see that they went with zero tolerance. It mirrors what went on in Quebec earlier this month. We really think it's the best approach and we're happy to work with the government on this," said Michelle Okere with Mothers Against Drunk Driving Canada's Saskatchewan chapter. Okere said she's hopeful the federal legislation will be made official next month. MADD Canada is currently running radio and TV ads with information about drug impairment. "We're recommending four hours before driving, so if you have smoked marijuana then wait four hours. If you are new to smoking marijuana, if you have mixed drugs and alcohol or if you have ingested it, the period should be longer," Okere said.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Mandatory breath tests for booze won't violate rights, justice minister says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now