Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Saskatoon Youth protections will change courtroom approach to pot charges after legalization: Saskatoon lawyer Harsher penalties for pot dealers who sell to young people will change the way marijuana charges are defended and prosecuted in the courts, according to Saskatoon lawyer Ron Piché. Social Sharing 'It certainly will require you to screen this a little more carefully,' says defence lawyer Ron Piché Alicia Bridges · CBC News · Posted: Jun 18, 2017 1:57 PM CT | Last Updated: June 18, 2017 Harsher penalties for dealers who sell to minors will change the way pot charges are handled in the courts, says Saskatoon lawyer Ron Piché. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) Harsher penalties for pot dealers who sell to young people will change the way marijuana charges are defended and prosecuted in the courts, according to Saskatoon lawyer Ron Piché. The Cannabis Act, part of the federal government's plan to legalize pot by July 1, 2018, imposes tough new penalties of up to 14 years in prison for giving or selling marijuana to minors. Liberals table bills to legalize pot, clamp down on impaired driving Extreme cold may affect results from roadside drug-screening devices: report A new offence with a penalty of up to 14 years in prison will also be created for using a youth to commit a cannabis-related offence. Piché — currently representing nearly 40 clients facing marijuana-related charges — said the target market for pot sales is not typically a factor in trafficking cases now. That will change if the legislation known as Bill C-45 is passed, he said. "[As a defence lawyer] you are going to be more vigilant to the fact that there may be younger people involved in the alleged trafficking," said Piché. "It certainly will require you to screen this a little more carefully." Ron Piché says he is currently representing just under 40 people on marijuana-related charges. (CBC) Most pot cases now don't make it to court Piché said most pot charges for smaller amounts are currently dropped before they make it to court. "The federal government and the federal Crown office that prosecutes the run-of-the-mill marijuana charge, not often do they see the light of day," he said. "They're either mediated or disposed of in other ways." Neary case example of shorter sentence He said even those cases that do make it through the courts — such as possession or trafficking of larger quantities of marijuana — do not usually attract a significant prison sentence. Pointing to the 15-month jail sentence imposed on ex-University of Saskatchewan football player Seamus Neary, he said the potential for harsher penalties would be much greater under the 14-year maximum sentence. "Fourteen years shows that the government has decided to take trafficking to minors, young people, extremely [seriously]," he said. "Ironically, at the same time, and I think there's a little bit of incongruity here … there's a more liberal approach to adults." The bill passed its second reading on June 8. New measures to deal with enforcement of impaired drivers are also part of the federal government's pot plan.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Liberals table bills to legalize pot, clamp down on impaired driving 'Clearly trafficked drugs for profit': Ex-Huskie Seamus Neary gets 15 months for pot offence Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now